{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54,"55":55,"56":56,"57":57,"58":58,"59":59,"60":60,"61":61,"62":62,"63":63,"64":64,"65":65,"66":66,"67":67,"68":68,"69":69,"70":70,"71":71,"72":72,"73":73,"74":74,"75":75,"76":76,"77":77,"78":78,"79":79,"80":80,"81":81,"82":82,"83":83,"84":84,"85":85,"86":86,"87":87,"88":88,"89":89,"90":90,"91":91,"92":92,"93":93,"94":94,"95":95,"96":96,"97":97,"98":98,"99":99,"100":100,"101":101,"102":102,"103":103,"104":104,"105":105,"106":106,"107":107,"108":108,"109":109,"110":110,"111":111,"112":112,"113":113,"114":114,"115":115,"116":116,"117":117,"118":118,"119":119,"120":120,"121":121,"122":122,"123":123,"124":124,"125":125,"126":126,"127":127,"128":128,"129":129,"130":130,"131":131,"132":132,"133":133,"134":134,"135":135,"136":136,"137":137,"138":138,"139":139,"140":140,"141":141,"142":142,"143":143,"144":144,"145":145,"146":146,"147":147,"148":148,"149":149,"150":150,"151":151,"152":152,"153":153,"154":154,"155":155,"156":156,"157":157,"158":158,"159":159,"160":160,"161":161,"162":162,"163":163,"164":164,"165":165,"166":166,"167":167,"168":168,"169":169,"170":170,"171":171,"172":172,"173":173,"174":174,"175":175,"176":176,"177":177,"178":178,"179":179,"180":180,"181":181},"abstracttext":{"0":"In recent years, the demand for snakes imported from different countries around the world has increased in Slovakia. However, such snakes can be infected with a wide variety of parasites. We have been focused on monitoring the prevalence of parasitic helminths of snakes imported to Slovakia. From 2015 to 2020, 205 samples were collected. We examined faecal samples of 185 live snakes, and a parasitological autopsy was performed on 20 carcasses. Out of a total of 205 snakes, parasitic helminths were found in 44 individuals (21.46 %). Coprological examination of live snakes confirmed positivity for the presence of helminths in 38 snakes (20.54 %). Through parasitological autopsy of all the dead snakes, we found helminths or their eggs in 6 carcasses (30.00 %). The genera of helminths found in the positive snakes were: Ophiotaenia spp., Kapsulotaenia spp., Strongyloides spp., Rhabdias spp., Ophidascaris spp., Ascaridia spp., f. Heterakidae, Kalicephalus spp., Capillaria spp., order Oxyurida and stages of the plerocercoid of an unidentifi ed species of tapeworm in the subcutaneous tissue.","1":null,"2":null,"3":"The rat lungworm Angiostrongylus cantonensis is a zoonotic parasite and the main cause of eosinophilic meningitis in the world. Its main source of nutrients originates from the degradation of host hemoglobin in blood-feeding helminths, such as A. cantonensis. The purpose of this study was to analyze the ultrastructure of the intestinal cells by using of transmission electron microscopy (TEM). A. cantonensis worms obtained from Rattus norvegicus (norway rats) from endemic area were used for TEM. The ultrastructural analysis was performed using fragments cut from the middle part of the worms, and the TEM study revealed the cells with microvilli and nuclei containing areas of loose and condensed chromatin and the presence of macrovesicles and microvesicles of digestion and it was observed in this study that intestinal epithelium is look like a syncytium. The ultrastructural aspects of the intestinal cells surface of A. Cantonensis the indicate that the intestinal epithelium is a multinucleate mosaic or syncytium.","4":"A wild male mouflon (Ovis musimon) was shot due to the observed weakness. Necropsy revealed consolidated lungs and traces of black pigment and fibrin on the liver. On the cut surface, a juvenile fl uke was found in the lungs, while traces of destroyed fl ukes' migratory channels were found in the liver. F. magna infection in both, wild and domestic ruminants, causes three types of species-specific host-parasite interactions; definitive, dead-end and aberrant. mouflon are classifi ed as aberrant hosts and here we report unsuccessful migration of a juvenile fl uke that led to a severe pneumonia.","5":"Root-lesion nematodes, Pratylenchus spp., are economically important pathogens because of their detrimental and economic impact on a wide range of crops. In August 2018, two samples of both roots and rhizosphere soil were collected from a corn field in Liangyuanqu of Shangqiu city, Henan Province, China. Root-lesion nematodes were recovered from the roots and soil samples using the modified Baermann funnel extraction method. Both the morphological characters and molecular analysis of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and D2-D3 expansion region of 28S ribosomal RNA sequences confirmed that the root-lesion nematode population collected from corn in this study was P. neglectus. Phylogenetic analyses showed that this isolate formed a highly supported clade with other P. neglectus isolates. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of P. neglectus on corn in Henan Province of China. This study reports the first partial sequences of 28S D2-D3 region of P. neglectus on corn in China. Due to the great harmfulness of root-lesion nematodes to corn, care should be taken to prevent the spread of P. neglectus to other regions in China. At the same time, further study on the biological characteristics of P. neglectus is needed, which will be helpful to develop corresponding management and control strategies.","6":"A total of 32 frogs of two species (Rana macrocnemis, Pelophylax ridibundus) that were dissected in some lectures in Ataturk University Science Faculty Biology Department were investigated parasitologically even after the lectures between 2008 and 2014. 9 digenean species (Cephalogonimus retusus [Cephalogonimidae]; Diplodiscus subclavatus [Paramphistomotidae]; Gorgodera cygnoides, Gorgoderina vitelliloba [Gorgoderidae]; Haplometra cylindracea, Haematoloechus variegatus, Opisthioglyphe ranae, Skrjabinoeces similis and Skrjabinoeces breviansa [Plagiorchiidae]), 3 acanthocephalan species (Acanthocephalus ranae, Centrorhynchus sp., Pomphorhynchus laevis) were found. All the parasites are the first record for Erzurum province, Cephalogonimus retusus and Skrjabinoeces similis are the first records of the parasite fauna of Turkey.","7":"In the Czech Republic, 12 freshly dead birds belonging to four species were examined helminthologically during a period of 2015 - 2019. They were six Caspian gulls Larus cachinnans (Lariformes), three goosanders Mergus merganser (Anseriformes), two common snipes Gallinago gallinago, and one common curlew Numenius arquata (Charadriiformes). Concerning trematodes, five echinostomatoids species were found, namely Aporchis massiliensis (obtained from one positive Caspian gull), Echinoparyphium macrovitellatum (one positive from six Caspian gulls), Echinostoma academica (one positive common curlew), Echinostoma stantschinskii (one positive from two common snipes), and Echinochasmus mergi (one positive from three goosanders). All the five echinostomatoids species represent the first records for the helminth fauna of the Czech Republic; the fl ukes A. massiliensis and E. macrovitellatum are recorded for the first time in the Central Europe or the Europe at all, respectively.","8":"Studies that seek to understand which factors influence the patterns of infection in the lizard Coleodactylus meridionalis are non-existent. In this way, we recorded the infection rates for these lizards from three different sized fragments of the Atlantic rainforest and investigated if there is influence of the size, mass and sex of the host regarding the endoparasite abundance. In addition, we investigated if there were possible associations between the host's diet and parasitism, by calculating the diet niche breadth (based on the prey number of pooled stomachs) for each host population and comparing the diet between fragments and sexes (from the three sampled fragments). We collected 38 lizards across the three sampled forest fragments. We only found parasites in the lizards sampled from the smallest of the three forest fragments which included: Physaloptera lutzi, Haplometroides odhneri and Oligacanthorhynchus sp. For this population, lizards with greater length and body mass have a greater endoparasite abundance. In addition, based on the results obtained in our study, the diet of the lizards varies in food composition between sampled populations. Finally, knowing that among the infected lizards there is no sexual dimorphism in relation to size and body mass and that the stomach sampling for this population is insufficient to calculate the indexes related to the food niche; we used the number of prey lizards from all populations, thus we were able to associate the fact that female lizards have a greater endoparasite abundance due to variations in food composition between sexes.","9":"Marine snails provide an important source of vitamins, proteins, minerals, and essential fatty acids, and their mucus has a therapeutic significance. Parasitic infection of larval trematodes in these snails affects their nutritional value. The present study aimed to screen Nerita polita marine snails for the prevalence of cercarial infections and to evaluate the changes in lipids and some minerals in the infected as well as non-infected ones. Snails were collected randomly from February 2018 to January 2019 from the Red Sea Obhor bay, Jeddah city, Saudi Arabia. The amount of triglycerides, cholesterol, and phospholipids in the Digestive Gland Gonad Complex (DGG), hemolymph, and Snail Conditioned Water (SCW) of non-infected and infected Nerita polita snail was estimated using a spectrophotometer. Minerals content such as Ca, Zn, Pb, Na, Mn, Mg, K, Fe, Cu, and Cd, in the DGG and shell in the infected and non-infected snails were analyzed using an Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emission Spectrometer (ICP-OES). Two types of cercariae were detected, ocellate furcocercus cercaria (Trichobilharzia regent) and xiphidiocercaria (Litorina saxatilis VII). The study showed that there is a fl uctuation in the concentration of lipids and minerals between increase and decrease in DGG, hemolymph, shell, and SCW in infected snails. The nutritive value of the snails is affected with infection through the decrease of some lipids and minerals in infected snails. Further qualitative studies are needed.","10":"Tapeworms parasitize at sites that are important for the management of micronutrients, including zinc. Therefore, it has been hypothesized that tapeworms will significantly affect the excretion of zinc in the feces of a host. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effects that tapeworms have on the excretion of zinc in the feces of the host. Rats were divided into 4 groups: groups 0T and MT (infected with Hymenolepis diminuta (Rudolphi, 1819)) and groups 00 and M0 (uninfected). The experimental groups (M0 and MT) were fed a standard rodent compound feed (ST-1) with added zinc lactate; the daily zinc intake was 20.5 mg. The control groups (00 and 0T) were fed only ST-1 with 1.75 mg of added Zn per day. For six weeks, the amount of consumed feed was recorded and fecal samples were taken. The samples were then analyzed by optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES), and levels of excreted zinc were subsequently calculated as a percentage. The most signifi cant difference in zinc excretion levels between the experimental groups was observed in the third week, when rats infected with tapeworms (MT) excreted substantially lower levels of zinc than did uninfected rats (M0). This difference amounted to 28.36 % (p &lt;0.01). In the control groups, tapeworms affected the excretion of zinc in the feces to a lesser extent, and the most substantial difference in zinc levels was seen in the fifth week (8.46 %). However, there was no signifi cant difference in zinc excretion levels between the control groups during any of the monitored weeks. Tapeworms in the host affect levels of zinc excreted in the feces. However, this is dependent on the amount or form of zinc ingested.","11":"Several species of the sheat nematodes, Hemicycliophora spp., have been known to cause significant damage to agricultural crops, including Hemicycliophora arenaria, H. conida, H. parvana, H. poranga, H. similis, and H. typica. Remarkably, our study reported on the presence of H. poranga for the first time in Vietnam. This species was found on 83.33% of the total samples with an average density of 270 individuals\/100ml of soil (positive samples). In this study, the Vietnamese population of H. poranga was characterized based on both morphology and molecular characterization of D2-D3 expansion segment of 28S rRNA sequence. Besides, a molecular phylogenetic tree of the genus Hemicycliophora was also provided.","12":"Fourteen Amietia sp. (Pyxicephalidae), from the Albertine Rift of Democratic Republic of the Congo were examined for helminths. Five species of Nematoda were found: Amphibiophilus chabaudi, Aplectana praeputialis, Falcaustra congoensis, Foleyellides duboisi and Orneoascaris chrysanthemoides. Amphibiophilus chabaudi was the most numerous nematode (n = 40) with the highest prevalence (57 %). Five new host records are reported.","13":null,"14":"The tayra Eira barbara is a Neotropical mustelid considered as an endangered species by Mexican environmental authorities. Despite the considerable information available on the biology and ecology of E. barbara, little is known about its helminth fauna. Here, we provided new records of nematodes from a road-killed tayra in Calakmul, Campeche, Mexico. The species identification of nematodes was based on morphological studies and molecular analysis of fragments of the 28S gene. The tayra specimen was infected by three nematodes: Molineus sp., Physalopterinae gen. sp. and Angiostrongylus vasosum. To our knowledge, this study is the first to report the natural infection of E. barbara with Molineus sp. and Physalopterinae gen. sp. Our study provides the first nucleotide sequences of nematodes parasitizing E. barbara providing a starting point against which future studies may be compared.","15":null,"16":null,"17":null,"18":null,"19":null,"20":"In addition to being a good food source, freshwater snails are considered one of the positively and negatively influencing invertebrates on the environment. Several biotic and abiotic factors are thought to affect the distribution and the dynamics of these snails. Freshwater snails are the most dominant and conspicuous individuals of the freshwater biota in Damietta Governorate. In this study, freshwater snails were collected monthly from 5 geographically and environmentally different sites at Damietta Governorate at the north of Egypt during June 2017-May 2018. Seven snail species; Lanistes carinatus, Lanistes varicus, Pila wernei, Segmentorbis angustus, Melanoides tuberculata, Biomphalaria alexandrina, and Gabbiella senoriansis, were identified. Lanistes carinatus was the most abundant species (56.4%) in the collection sites. Besides, Al-Inaniyyah village had the highest snail species abundance and variety. The abundance of the most recorded species varied seasonally; the highest abundance was recorded during summer while the lowest was during winter. The abundance of some snail species correlated positively or negatively with some physico-chemical parameters; water temperature, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, total dissolved salts, and electrical conductivity. Two types of trematode cercariae; gymnocephalus cercariae and xiphidiocercariae, were harvested from Lanistes carinatus. The highest prevalence of both cercarial types was detected during summer. The correlation between the prevalence of both cercarial types and the physico-chemical parameters were determined. Xiphidiocercariae were the most predominant cercarial type in Damietta Governorate. Our findings suggest that the invasion of some freshwater snails is likely to be the cause of the low prevalence or complete absence of some medically important intermediate snail hosts. We recommend further characterization of the distribution of freshwater snails and the interrelationships among them in Egypt, and suggest a controlled use of selected snail species to combat their medically important analogues.","21":"Anthelmintic resistance (AR) in equine cyathostomins is being reported all over the world. In Lithuania, however, the last study on this subject was published more than fifteen years ago, thus little is known about the current situation. The aim of this study was to determine the factors that may associated with the development of AR on equine studs in Lithuania. A questionnaire containing seven open-ended and nine closed multiple-choice questions about worm control strategies, use of anthelmintic substances and stable management practices was posted to 71 randomly selected horse establishments in Lithuania. Replies were obtained from a total of 59 stables, representing 83 % of officially established stud farms in Lithuania. The results showed that more than 80 % of these establishments performed pasture management practices such as excrement removal from stables and pasture, 56 % mowed their pasture, 31 % practised mixed or rotational grazing with other species, and 97 % of the horses were routinely dewormed. Macrocyclic lactones (ML) (58 %, n=33) were the most commonly used drugs, followed by benzimidazoles (BZ) (24 %, n=14) and tetrahydropyrimidines (THP) (19 %, n=10). The majority of farms (60 %) treated horses four times per year and 68 % estimated the weight of the horses by eye before treatment. About 36 % of respondents had heard of faecal egg counts (FEC), but only 17 % used the test and as few as 9 % had tested their herds for AR with faecal egg count reduction tests (FECRT). The results demonstrate that there is scope for improving routines for worm control in many horse establishments in Lithuania. In order to increase knowledge and reduce the risk of the spread of AR, diagnostic methods should be adopted in a collaboration between stud farms and veterinary practitioners.","22":"This paper reports three recovered species of digeneans from an adult loggerhead sea turtle - Caretta caretta (Testudines, Cheloniidae) in Brazil. These trematodes include Diaschistorchis pandus (Pronocephalidae), Cymatocarpus solearis (Brachycoeliidae) and Rhytidodes gelatinosus (Rhytidodidae) The first two represent new geographic records. A list of helminths reported from the Neotropical region, Gulf of Mexico and USA (Florida) is presented.","23":"Samples of black pepper root with the presence of galls from the most southern region of the State of Bahia, Brazil, were characterized biochemically and morphologically using three criteria: i) observation of the anterior region of the males; ii) analysis of female perineal configuration and iii) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis technique. Meloidogyne arenaria was found. This is the first report of this pathosystem in the State.","24":"Root-knot nematodes in the genus Meloidogyne are an important group of plant-parasitic nematodes causing severe damage on agricultural crops worldwide. A study was conducted to identify the species of root-knot nematodes causing damage on honeybush monocultures and to assess the seasonal variations in the nematode population. Soil samples were collected from six experimental sites in Genadendal, Western Cape province of South Africa from 2016 to 2017. DNA was extracted from single-second stage juveniles and species identifi cation was done using species-specifi c sequence-characterised amplifi ed regions (SCAR) primers. Meloidogyne hapla and M. javanica were identifi ed from the sites. Mean population density of the nematodes varied significantly (p &lt; 0.05) in the six sites, with the peak population being recorded in summer of 2017. The study suggests that seasonal variation in temperature and moisture could contribute to changes in the population density of root-knot nematodes in the soil.","25":"We report a female Chordodes anthophorus from a Giant Asian Mantis (Hierodula membranacea) for the first time from Iran. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to describe the characters and substructures precisely. We demonstrate characteristic cuticular patterns for Chordodes anthophorus. The presence of five types of areoles including simple, tubercle, crowned and circumcluster areoles and also crowned areoles with long fi laments which is a common feature in females, confi rm our investigation.","26":"A scanning electron microscope study was performed on the surface of the trematode Astiotrema impletum (Looss, 1899) Looss 1900 from the Nile puffer, Tetraodon lineatus Linnaeus, 1758 (Syn. Tetraodon fahaka) for the first time. Adult A. impletum have a markedly large, sub-terminal oral sucker and a small ventral sucker. As with most trematodes, tegumental spines are concentrated anteriorly and are absent just anterior the ventral sucker. Spines have serrated tips on a short, tongue-shaped body. At the level of the ventral sucker the base of each spine exhibits a three bulbous-like structure that can be partially or completely withdrawn into the tegument. Sensory papillae are concentrated around the oral and ventral suckers and genital pores. Papillae are conical or knob-like, either ciliated or non-ciliated; some are protruded and others are embedded inside the tegument. In the juvenile stage, spines are smaller, less well-developed and tightly packed. The cytoplasmic processes of the posterior quarter of body show brain-like velvety appearance on the adult and small cobblestone-like on the juvenile.","27":"This study aimed to determine the effectiveness of mefl oquine alone or combined with albendazole in reduced doses against T. spiralis infection. One hundred and twenty albino mice were orally infected with 200 T. spiralis larvae\/mouse. Drugs were administered during the enteral phase on days 1 to 3 and on the chronic phase on days 35 to 37 post-infection, and mice were sacrificed, respectively, at days 7 or 48 post-infection to count mature intestinal worms or encysted muscle larvae. The effect of the treatment on the histology of the target organs of each phase, intestine and diaphragm, was also evaluated. A signifi cant decrease in intestinal worms was found in all treated groups relative to the untreated control group at a peak of 93.7% in the combination albendazole-mefl oquine group. Results in all treated groups demonstrated a signifi cant decrease in muscle larvae relative to untreated control groups, achieving 86.2 % in the combined albendazole-mefl oquine group. There was a marked improvement in the intestinal and muscular architecture in all treated groups compared to the non-treated control group. Notably, the albendazole-mefl oquine group showed an almost complete recovery. The combined albendazole-mefl oquine low dose regimen had the highest effect on reducing parasite burden and restoring normal histological architecture.","28":null,"29":"Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is a zoonotic disease caused by the larval stage of Echinococcus granulosus tapeworms. These parasites have a worldwide geographic distribution and pose a serious threat to livestock industry as well as human health in the endemic areas. CE is widely distributed in Pakistan. However, very few reports are available related to the regional transmission of E. granulosus. A retrospective analysis was conducted of surgically confirmed CE patients who were treated at Shoukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre in Lahore, Punjab Province, Pakistan from 2007 - 2018. In total, 536 CE patients were evaluated during the study period. Cases originated from the provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (n=336), Punjab (n=147), Baluchistan (n=18), Sindh (n=3), Islamabad (n=2), Gilgit Baltistan (n=1), and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (n=1). An additional 28 cases were from Afghanistan. The highest number of CE cases was reported in 2013 (n=90). Females made up a larger proportion of cases (n=310; 57.8 %) than males (n=226; 42.2 %). Most patients were members of the Pashtun (n=197; 36.7 %), Hindku (n=142; 26.5 %), and Punjabi (n=118; 22.0 %) ethnic groups. The largest number of cysts was obtained from the liver (137\/536; 25.6 %). This study showed that CE is likely present throughout Pakistan. In order to control the disease, a comprehensive control program and regional surveillance are needed.","30":"In Turkey, cyst hydatid disease (CHD) or cystic echinococcosis (CE) is publicly known as \"dog cyst\", a fatal and serious disease not only affects livestock husbandry and human health but also brings about economic loss to our country. According to the data of the Ministry of Health; number of annual cases was 408 in 2008, and this number reached 1,867 by the end of 2019. Cystic echinococcosis is especially taken up during childhood and emerged at an older age. They become exposed to the eggs of the tapeworm after close contact with an infected dog or its contaminated environment. The infected dogs also pass in their feces E. granulosus eggs that adhere to the dogs' hairs, and pass on to the children who are in the course of playful and intimate contact with the infected dogs. This study was to create the awareness of risk factors of CE among 10 different districts of Izmir province. Awareness raising seminars are essential component of this study because local people living in CE endemic areas, are crucial to continue and sustain the long-time effort that is needed to tackle this disease. In each district, 3 awareness raising seminars were held to the target groups: (a) in schools for students, teachers, administrators, (b) for general public, (c) for healthcare professionals. 4090 students attended to the trainings, 242 administrators and teachers who attended to the presentations together with the students, 524 people were attended to the trainings and 327 health workers attended to the trainings from different institutions. This study helped improving this situation by organising educational events for the rural populations for preventing transmission of the disease. This is the first educational intervention study regarding creating awareness on CE in Izmir Province which includes 10 districts between January 2019 to January 2020.","31":null,"32":"Within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is stated that everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living, which ensures, as well as their family, health and well-being, and food, thereby ensuring adequate nutrition. One of the major threats to overcome this is to ensure food security, which becomes particularly challenging in developing countries due to the high incidence of parasitic diseases. The World Health Organization (WHO), considers it one of the main causes of morbidity, closely linked to poverty and related to inadequate personal hygiene, consumption of raw food, lack of sanitary services, limited access to drinking water and fecal contamination in the environment. It is estimated that more than a fifth of the world's population is infected by one or several intestinal parasites, and that in many countries of Central and South America the average percentage of infected people is 45%, being Taenia solium, Echinococcus granulosus, Toxoplasma gondii, Cryptosporidium spp, Entamoeba histolytica, Trichinella spiralis, Ascaris spp, Trypanosoma cruzi and Fasciola hepatica some of the most important ones in the neotropics. One of the main reasons why these diseases are diffi cult to control is t he ignorance of their lifecycles, as well as symptoms and current epidemiology of the disease, which contributes to a late or erroneous diagnosis. The present work aims to discuss and make public the current knowledge as well as the general characteristics of these diseases to the general audience.","33":"Information on the recent herpetological and related parasitological collections are very rarely available for Afghanistan. We examined two species of the family Agamidae, Laudakia nuristanica and Paralaudakia caucasia for the presence of the intestinal helminth fauna. Overall, we examined 13 specimens of these lizards and found three species of helminths (Abbreviata achari, Thelandros masaae, T. taylori) in a single specimen of L. nuristanica and four species (A. achari, T. baylisi, T. taylori, P. kasauli) in three specimens of P. caucasia. Here in, we present the first report on the helminth fauna from L. nuristanica, record a new helminth host for P. caucasia and three new country records for the helminth fauna of Afghanistan.","34":"The present report describes the first clinically manifested and serologically proven case of Dirofilaria immitis infection in a cat in Bulgaria. A 10-year-old intact male cat was referred to the Small Animal Clinic, Trakia University with a history of anorexia, weight loss, intermittent coughing and itching skin lesions on the head and neck. Physical examination revealed abnormal heart sounds and respiration, cyanosis of the mucous membranes, and generalized enlargement of the lymph nodes. Mild infestation with hard ticks and fleas was also detected during the initial skin inspection. In addition, adult Otodectes cynotis mites were observed in the skin lesions. The fecal sample was positive for larvae of Aelurostrongylus abstrusus and eggs of Toxocara cati. Blood serology revealed antigens of D. immitis as well as antibodies against both feline immunodeficiency virus and D. immitis. Thoracic radiographic findings included a pronounced generalized reticular interstitial pattern; alveolar and bronchial shades with multiple nodular thickenings throughout the lungs. Electrocardiography demonstrated a sinus tachycardia, a peaked P-wave (P-pulmonale) and an abnormally low ST-segment. The clinical signs disappeared after treatment with selamectin, doxycycline and corticosteroids. Despite the improvement in general health condition, the cat suddenly died several months later.","35":"Human alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is a silently-progressing disorder that has become a threat in many countries. Since 2000, when the first case was recorded, the number of human AE patients in Slovakia is on continuous raise. The article presents a rare case of alveolar echinococcosis with infiltration in the adrenal gland and discusses the problems associated with differential diagnosis of the disease. In 2016, abdominal ultrasound performed due abdominal pain complaint showed the presence of cystic lesions in the right liver lobe of 54-year old female patient. During surgery, another lesion in the right adrenal gland was found, and neoplastic processes or echinococcosis were considered in the differential diagnosis. Due to unclear correlation between radiology, serology and histopathology results and endemic situation in Slovakia, molecular examination was recommended. Subsequently E. multilocularis was confirmed as etiological agent of infection. Alveolar echinococcosis is considered as a rare disease, with very few patients referred to clinicians or hospitals that sometimes have almost none existing experience with the diagnosis and treatment of the disease. Therefore, the establishment of networks or reference centres specialized on management of the disease would be suitable way to provide the patients with the best care and improve the disease diagnosis, treatment and prognosis.","36":"The population of Xiphinema americanum species group was detected from the soil surronding the roots of peach (Prunus persica) during a survey of plant-parasitic nematodes in Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan. From the results of the morphological study, the species was identified as X. diffusum. Morphometrics of X. diffusum generally agree with those of the type species and the topotype specimens. Molecular analysis of 18S rDNA of X. diffusum from Pakistan indicated two nucleotide differences and 99 % similarity with the Chinese (AM086669) and the Australian (AM086685) population of X. diffusum. Phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA placed the Pakistanis population close to X. diffusum from China and Australia. This species is reported for the first time from Pakistan.","37":null,"38":"Aphelenchoides pseudogoodeyi has recently been reported in association with seeds of forage grasses and rice in Brazil and senescent strawberry plants, in the United States. This nematode is likely a mycophagous species; however, so far, its pathogenicity potential to plants is unclear. This study aimed to verify the pathogenicity of A. pseudogoodeyi to two species of ornamental plants. The experiments were conducted by inoculating A. pseudogoodeyi onto Bird's-Nest Fern (Asplenium nidus) and Oriental Lily (Lilium speciosum) leaves, using two inoculation methods (with and without injury). After 40 days of inoculation (DAI) in Bird's-Nest Fern and 5, 10, 20 and 40 DAI in Oriental Lily, the pathogenicity and the host efficiency were evaluated by symptoms observation and by severity, final nematode population and reproductive factor (RF), respectively. Additionally, a histopathological study was performed by inoculating A. pseudogoodeyi onto Bird's-Nest Fern for observing anatomical alterations. A. pseudogoodeyi was able to cause local necrotic lesions on both Bird's-Nest Fern and Oriental Lily leaves. However, the presence of injury was essential to enable A. pseudogoodeyi to penetrate and cause those symptoms in both plant species. Also, the total population of A. pseudogoodeyi decreased drastically over time and RF was &lt;1, which characterized these species as poor-host or resistant plants. A. pseudogoodeyi penetrated into the foliar tissue and induced a total destruction of the mesophyll and collapse of the cells, with the formation of large intercellular spaces. It is concluded that A. pseudogoodeyi is an opportunistic pathogen as injury was required to induce symptoms in Bird's-Nest Fern and Oriental Lily.","39":null,"40":"Taenia hydatigena is a tapeworm that affects herbivores in different regions of the world. Cysticercus tenuicollis (larvae of T. hydatigena), is prevalent in ruminants and pigs. In the current study, phylogenetic analysis of the published mt-CO1 gene of C. tenuicollis sheep isolates was analyzed using in-silico method and vertical and horizontal transmission at the global level by using a meta-analysis approach. A total of 82 mt-CO1 nucleotide sequences (339 bp) of C. tenuicollis sheep isolates from the NCBI database (Italy -Sardinia-, Iran, Palestine, Iraq, Finland, India and China) were used to investigate haplotype and genetic relationships. Tajima's D (-2,2984) value was negative for the mt-CO1 sequences signifying the population expansion and\/or purifying selection. The highly negative Fu's Fs (-60,528) values determined for the sequences reflecting the existence of uncommon haplotypes. The mt-CO1 of C. tenuicollis haplotype network had 47 haplotypes arranged within a star-like configuration with a main haplotype, which encompassed 25.6 % of the total isolates. In the mt-CO1 haplotype network analyzed, there were 80.5 % unique single haplotype and highest ratio was observed in C. tenuicollis from sheep originating from Iran, followed by Sardinia, Palestine and Finland. If the current condition continues, genetic differences in T. hydatigena will be able to rise, and possible new strains and\/or genotypes that may influence the host adaptation and life cycle of the parasite may emerge.","41":"A total of 1134 freshwater fishes belonging to Cyprinidae (Acanthobrama marmid (n=20), Alburnus caeruleus (n=7), Alburnus mossulensis (n=62), Arabibarbus grypus (n=123), Barbus lacerta (n=7), Capoeta trutta (n=222), C. umbla (n=161), Carasobarbus kosswigi (n=5), C. luteus (n=89), Carassius auratus (n=54), Chondrostoma regium (n=52), Cyprinion kais (n=10) and C. macrostomum (n=322)) were collected in different water bodies in Sulaimani Province, Kurdistan Region-Iraq for the presence of larval nematode of the genus Conteacaecum. This investigation revealed that 17 fishes belonged to five species (A. marmid, A. grypus, C. trutta, C. luteus and C. regium) were infected with Contracaecum larvae with prevalence of 35 %, 0.81 %, 0.90 %, 4.49 % and 5.76 %, respectively. The third- larval stage was morphologically studied by optical microscopy, and the ultrastructure was investigated using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). In addition, molecular analysis was carried out by amplifying, sequencing and comparing different gene loci, including internal transcribed spacers (ITS-1 and ITS-2) and cytochrome oxidase c subunit-II (COX-2), of the different isolated Contracaecum larvae. These sequences were also compared with closely related nematode sequences from the GenBank. Fifteen sequences were obtained for this study from the collected Contracaecum larvae. ITS-1, ITS-2 and COX-2 were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequenced. The sequences of ITS-1, ITS-2 and COX-2 revealed that the collected Contracaecum larval specimens from all infected fish species represented one species (Contracaecum rudolphii B) based on the identity percentage in the GenBank database. The genetic characterisation of the parasite in the present study is available in the GenBank database, and the obtained ITS-1, ITS-2 and COX-2 sequences were deposited in GenBank. The present study provides information on the accurate identification and molecular analysis of Contracaecum larvae in the infected fish species in Sulaimani Province, Kurdistan Region-Iraq.","42":"It is important to consider the use of the epigenome as source of complementary data for genome knowledge, which is suitable for the diagnosis of schistosomiasis. Usually, a laboratory diagnosis of schistosomiasis is performed by means of 1. Egg detection in the stool or urine by microscopy remains with limited sensitivity; 2. Immunological screening, in which positivity persists after treatment, and 3. Molecular appraisals prevail over the disadvantages of the currently used methods. In this sense, molecular methodologies are being developed based on epigenetic biomarkers, aiming to improve the diagnosis of the disease and clinical treatment as early as possible to prevent the occurrence of serious liver damage.","43":"Strongyloides stercoralis is a helminthic intestinal parasite that causes the disease strongyloidiasis. Its prevalence is high in tropics and sub-tropics due to poor sanitation and hygiene. However, its true prevalence is not well known in Ethiopia as most health institutions use low sensitive diagnostic methods. This review aimed to determine the pooled prevalence of S. stercoralis at country, and regional state levels. Papers published on S. stercoralis in Ethiopia from 2010 to 2020 were collected from PubMed, Google Scholar and Science direct databases and Addis Ababa repository. Identification, screening, checking the eligibility, and inclusion of the relevant literatures were done. Articles with S. stercoralis positive results from Ethiopian populations were included. Articles which focused on Strongyloides infection in foreigners, and other than stool samples were excluded. The pooled prevalence of S. stercoralis and heterogeneity between studies and across regions were computed. From the 43 articles, the overall prevalence of S. stercoralis in Ethiopia was 1.82 %. Across regions, relatively high prevalence of S. stercoralis (8.78 %) was recorded in Addis Ababa city. High prevalence of S. stercoralis was found to be 44.02 % with a combination of formol ether concentration, Baermann concentration, and molecular methods. Low prevalence of 0.26 %, 0.31 %, and 1.20 % was evidenced respectively with Kato-Katz, direct saline microscopy, and formol ether concentration methods. Using random effect analysis, the pooled prevalence of S. stercoralis in Ethiopia, across regions and across diagnostic methods was 2.1 % (95 %CI: 1.20 - 3.60), 2.6 % (95 %CI: 0.80 - 8.20) and 3.7 % (95 %CI: 1.10 - 11.70), respectively. The heterogeneity was high (P&lt;0.001). This review revealed that Strongyloides infection is probably underreported and its prevalence could be higher than the reported in Ethiopia. Therefore, a revision of the best combination of diagnostic methods could be advisable as it gives better diagnostic results in routine diagnosis of Strongyloides infection in Ethiopia.","44":null,"45":"The dagger nematodes of the longidorids can cause diseases of various agronomic and horticultural crops, and are consisted of more than 260 valid species. In a forest survey of ecotypes of longidorid nematodes, from the root zone soil of Brant's oak, (Quercus brantii Lindl.) and hawthorn (Crataegus aronia L.) trees, three species of Xiphinema americanum group namely Xiphinema pachtaicum, X. oxycaudatum and X. plesiopachtaicum were collected and studied based on their morphological and morphometric characters. X. pachtaicum is prevalent Xiphinema species in Iran. In this paper additional data for X. oxycaudatum and X. plesiopachtaicum species are presented. X. plesiopachtaicum is a new record for nematode fauna of Iran.","46":null,"47":"The larvae of the genus Baylisascaris can cause larva migrans in mammals and birds. This study investigated the larval migration of Baylisascaris potosis, the roundworm of kinkajou (Potos flavus), in chickens and the associated clinical manifestations of the host. Thirty-six 3-week-old chickens divided into 6 groups were orally inoculated with 3,000 B. potosis eggs\/chick. Each group of chicken was necropsied at days 1, 2, 3, 7, 30 and 90 PI (post inoculation), and the number of larvae in various organs were counted until day 90 PI. No clinical signs were observed in chickens during the study. Larvae were detected from the liver, lungs or breast-muscles of 13\/36 (36.1%) chickens. The mean total number of larvae in the liver, lungs and breast-muscles at days 1, 2, 3, 7, 30 and 90 PI were 0.34, 0.17, 1.66, 1.01, 0.17 and 0, respectively. No larvae were found in the brain, eyes, hid-limb muscles, heart, kidneys and spleen. Although infectivity of larvae in egg-inoculated chickens was low, the present study demonstrated that B. potosis larvae can migrate in chickens tissues up to day 30 PI. The result suggests that chickens can serve as a paratenic host for B. potosis and may underline a public health importance of B. potosis infection as a potential foodborne disease in humans.","48":"Soil treatments with formulated plant biomasses or waste materials can be an effective alternative to green manure crops for a sustainable management of root-knot nematode infestations. The suppressive performance of soil amendments with three commercial formulations of defatted seed meal from Brassica carinata, dry biomass of Medicago sativa and pressed pulp from Beta vulgaris was comparatively evaluated on the root knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita both on potted and field tomato (cv. Regina) trials. Products were applied at rates of 10, 20, 30 or 40 g\/kg and 20 and 40 T\/ ha soil in pots and field, respectively. Soil non treated or treated with the nematicide Oxamyl were used as controls in both experiments. Amendments in potted soil significantly reduced M. incognita infestation on tomato roots compared to both the untreated control and treatment with Oxamyl, also increasing tomato plant growth up to the 30 g\/kg soil rate. At the end of the field tomato crop, soil population density of M. incognita resulted significantly reduced by all the tested treatments, whereas tomato yield was significantly higher than the untreated control only at the lowest amendment rate. Soil amendments with the materials tested in this study demonstrated to be a potential additional tool for a satisfactory and safe management of root-knot nematodes.","49":null,"50":null,"51":"We recorded the metazoan parasite communities in three endemic cichlids (Chiapaheros grammodes, Vieja breidohri and V. hartwegi) collected between November 2008 and July 2009 in the upper Grijalva River Basin (GRB), Chiapas, Mexico. In total, 6,287 individual parasites belonging to 18 taxa (1 monogenean, 6 digeneans, 1 cestode, 4 nematodes, 2 acanthocephalans, 1 hirudinean, 2 copepods and 1 pentastomid) were found. Eleven metazoans were adult forms and 7 larvae; moreover, 14 were endoparasites and 4 ectoparasites. Sixteen parasite taxa represent new geographical and host records. The helminth community in the three cichlids was characterized by higher number of generalists than specialists, as well as a higher proportion of autogenics than allogenics. The metazoan parasites showed prevalence and mean abundances moderate to high. The infracommunities and component community of metazoan parasites had low diversity, richness, and number of individuals and are similar to those reported for other cichlids in Southeastern Mexico, characterized by the presence of typical parasites of cichlids, with a high number of digeneans and generalist parasites. We report the introduced Asian parasitic copepod Neoergasilus japonicus parasitizing endangered or threatened endemic cichlids in the upper GRB. This copepod have been widespread in other freshwater fish species, mainly in Asia (China, India, Japan, Russia, Taiwan), Europe (France, Hungary, Italy, Turkey), and America (Cuba, Mexico, Peru, United States).","52":"Biomphalaria alexandrina snails have received much attention due to their great medical importance as vectors for transmitting Schistosoma mansoni infection to humans. The main objective of the present work was to assess the efficacy of miltefosin a synthetic molluscicidal drug and artemether a natural molluscicidal drug. The correlation between immunological and histological observations from light and electron microscopy of the hemocytes of B. alexandrina post treatment with both drugs was also evaluated. LC50 and LC90 values were represented by 13.80 ppm and 24.40 ppm for miltefosine and 16.88 ppm and 27.97 ppm for artemether, respectively. The results showed that the treatment of S. mansoni-infected snails and normal snails with sublethal dose of miltefosine (LC25=8.20 ppm) and artemether (LC25=11.04 ppm) induced morphological abnormalities and a significant reduction in hemocytes count.","53":"Respiratory capillariosis is a widely distributed zoonotic parasitic disease caused by the nematode Capillaria aerophila (Trichocephalida, Trichuridae) that commonly infects wild carnivores but also cats and dogs. This retrospective study aims to describe cases of respiratory capillariosis in cats from the city of Belgrade, Serbia. Between 2015 and 2019, a total of 155 pet cats with or without respiratory symptoms were submitted to physical examination and parasitological examination of the feces. All cats lived indoor but had free access to outdoor. In suburban settlements, wild carnivores commonly share their living environments with owned cats and dogs. It can be assumed that more intense urbanization spreading into the natural habitats of will carnivores creates the opportunity for closer and more frequent contacts between the population of cats and feral carnivores which might increase the risk of feline contamination. The findings confirm the existence of capillaries in cats in urban areas of the city of Belgrade, contribute to a better understanding of the epidemiology of this nematode and warn that, because of close contacts between cats of pets and humans, capillaries can cause human infection.","54":"The aim of this study was to investigate the difference in Fecal Egg Counts (FEC) with regard to group size, age, sex and body condition of wild free-roaming Przewalski's horses in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone (Ukraine), across different seasons, over a five-year period (2014 - 2018). We hypothesized that horses from larger group sizes would have higher faecal egg counts (FECs). The relationship between FECs and the year and season of sample collection, and age, sex and group size of the horses was analyzed. Generalized linear model using positive strongylid FEC`s as a variable response, was used to investigate the differences in FECs between the groups. Nematode (Strondylidae, Parascaris spp., Habronematidae) and cestode (Anoplocephalidae) eggs were also identified. Stronglyids were the most prevalent helminth egg, and had the highest FECs. The model for egg counts of strongylids showed that season and group size of horses were statistically significant. Presence of strongylid eggs was not dependent on age and sex of horses. We suggest that this could be a result of parasite transmission between individuals and groups in places were animals aggregate around water sources or collective farms. Results obtained in this current study broaden the knowledge of gastrointestinal parasites in free-roaming horses under wild natural conditions.","55":"Protostrongylids, small nematode lungworms, are an integral part of the wild ruminant helminth community, which can damage animals' health when they are held in captivity or semi-captive conditions. The Sahelo-Saharan antelope species dorcas gazelle (Gazella dorcas), the scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah), and the addax (Addax nasomacculatus), reintroduced to Souss-Massa National Park in Morocco, could be host to many species of Protostrongylids. This study was conducted from January to July 2015 to identify infecting parasite species, and determine their prevalence and abundance in all three antelope species. A total of 180 individual fecal samples were collected, morphologically examined by the Baermann technique, and molecularly identified by PCR amplification and sequencing of the second internal transcribed spacer region of the rDNA (ITS-2). Two parasite species were found in the three antelope populations: Muellerius capillaris and Neostrongylus linearis. The prevalence scores recorded for M. capillaris were 98.40 % in the addax, 96.70 % in dorcas gazelle, and 28.40 % in the oryx. The prevalence rates of N. linearis were 60 % in the addax, 23.40 % in dorcas gazelle, and 90 % in the oryx. Excreted larvae were quantified by LPG (larvae per gram) counting: for M. capillaris, the LPG mean values were 92.94 in the addax, 133.09 in dorcas gazelle, and 1.48 in the oryx; and for N. linearis, the LPG mean values were 6.02 in the addax, 1.37 in dorcas gazelle, and 32.81 in the oryx. These findings indicate that the three species of antelopes are infected with Muellerius capillaris and Neostrongylus linearis to varying degrees in intensity and prevalence.","56":"Hymenolepis nana is the most common cestode reported in humans worldwide. It is prevalent among children in the tropics and subtropics, particularly in rural poor communities where sanitation is inadequate or lacking. This cross-sectional study aims to determine the prevalence and significant risk factors of H. nana infection among children in rural Yemen. Faecal samples were collected from 498 children and screened for intestinal parasites by using wet mount, formalin-ether concentration and Kato-Katz techniques. A pretested questionnaire was used to collect demographic, socioeconomic, housing condition, and personal hygiene information. Overall, 77.5 % (386\/498) of the children were found to be infected by at least one intestinal parasite species. The overall prevalence of H. nana was 17.5 % (87\/498). Multivariate analysis confirmed that an age of &lt; 6 years (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] = 4.28; 95 % (confidence interval [CI] = 2.04, 8.98), presence of other family members infected with H. nana (AOR = 2.48; 95 % CI = 1.45, 4.24), living in the highlands (AOR = 2.87; 95 % CI = 1.56, 5.26), living in a house without improved toilet facilities (AOR = 2.19; 95 % CI = 1.23, 3.88), not washing vegetables before consumption (AOR = 2.11; 95 % CI = 1.06, 4.19), and not washing hands after defecation (AOR = 1.88; 95 % CI = 1.08, 3.27) were the key factors significantly associated with H. nana infection among the studied children. In conclusion, H. nana is prevalent among children in rural Yemen, particularly among preschool-aged children. Thus, an integrated and effective programme to control intestinal parasitic infections should include preschool-aged children. Such a programme should focus on providing health education on hygienic practices, providing adequate sanitation and improved sources of drinking water, and screening and treating other infected family members.","57":"Migration of Baylisascaris potosis larvae in different mouse strains were compared, and infectivity of the persisting larvae in mice tissues were investigated. Five strains of mice, BALB\/c, C57BL\/6, AKR, B10.BR, and ICR were inoculated with 1,000 B. potosis eggs\/mouse, and necropsied at week 13 post inoculation (PI). The other uninfected ICR mice (secondary host) were inoculated with 43 larvae\/ mouse recovered from mice at week 13 PI with eggs, and necropsied at day 21 PI. Larvae in organs or tissues were counted at necropsy. One AKR mouse showed torticollis and circling at day 56 PI. At necropsy at week 13 PI, larvae were recovered from all mice. A mean total larvae recovered were 124.1 (n=40). Majority of larvae were found in the carcass (mean 113.9) and some in the viscera (mean 9.9). Zero to 1 larva were found in the brain or eyes of some mice. There were no differences among the mouse strains in the number of larvae, except in the viscera; more larvae were seen in BALB\/c or ICR than in B10.BR mice. No larvae were found in the secondary host mice. Present study demonstrated that B. potosis larvae migrate well in the carcass of any strains of mice, however, the tissue larvae did not infect the secondary host. Results of our present study suggest that B. potosis larvae is less aggressive for the nervous tissue migration than that of B. procyonis larvae which is commonly known to migrate in central nervous system of mammals and birds.","58":"This review updates the current knowledge on the taxonomy of intestinal nematodes of the genus Cooperia parasitizing in wild and domestic ruminants. The emphasis is put on revision of 19 valid species belonging to the genus. This analysis focuses on main features of the genus Cooperia, including its geographic occurrence and the life cycle details. The most widespread congeners are Cooperia curticei, C. oncophora, C. pectinata, and C. punctata, having nearly worldwide distribution. The fifth species, referred by electronic databases from the European territory as Cooperia asamati Spiridonov, 1985, is unveiled here originally as nomen nudum.","59":null,"60":null,"61":"This study determined the diversity and seasonality of parasites species of the African clawed frog, Xenopus laevis (Daudin, 1802), from three localities, namely Modjadjikloof, Mokopane and University of Limpopo, Limpopo Province, South Africa. A total of seven parasite species were collected and identified. They included two nematodes, Camallanus kaapstaadi Southwell &amp; Kirshner, 1937 and Batrachocamallanus slomei (Southwell &amp; Kirshner, 1937), a monogenean, Protopolystoma xenopodis (Price, 1943), a cestode, Cephalochlamys namaquensis (Cohn, 1906), a protozoan, Trichodina xenopodos Fantham, 1924, two digeneans, Progonimodiscus doyeri Ortlepp, 1926 and Dollfuschella rodhaini Vercammen-Grandjean, 1960. The most common and abundant parasite species by far were Cm. kaapstaadi, B. slomei and Cp. namaquensis, with Cm. kaapstaadi, B. slomei present in all localities. Trichodina xenopodos was a rare species, only present in host populations from Modjadjiskloof. Modjadjiskloof had the highest species richness (all seven parasite species) followed by Mokopane (five parasite species) and University of Limpopo (3 parasite species). There were also higher infection levels (prevalence and mean intensity) of Cm. kaapstaadi, B. slomei, Cp. namaquensis and Pt. xenopodis in hosts from Modjadjiskloof while Pd. doyeri and D. rodhaini infection levels were greater in Mokopane. The variability between localities shows that parasites with heteroxenous life cycles are more strongly associated with more pristine habitats. The variability in calculated indices (prevalence and mean intensity) also suggests that the occurrence of some of the parasites is affected by season, favouring higher infection rates during summer. This suggests that temperature has a direct role in the reproductive and developmental processes of these parasites. Neither length nor sex had an influence on the prevalence or intensity of parasites.","62":"The northern section of the Caspian Sea is an important fishery for Kazakhstan. In the present study, a total of 606 individuals of 13 fish species were collected. For each of Abramis brama, Alosa saposchnikowii, Atherina boyeri caspia, Carassius auratus, Clupeonella cultriventris, Cyprinus carpio, Liza aurata, Leuciscus aspius, Rutilus rutilus caspius, Sander lucioperca, Sander marinus, and Sander volgensis 50 individuals were examined whilst 6 individuals of Siluris glanis were examined. The nematode parasite Anisakis schupakovi was found in all fish species except Liza aurata, Carassius aurata, Cyprinus carpio and Rutilus rutilus at intensities ranging from 1 to 1197 parasites per infected fish. Trematodes of family Diplostomidae were also isolated from all fish except Alosa saposhnikowii, Clupeonella cultriventris and Sander marinus at intensities ranging from 1 to 242 parasites per infected fish. Other parasites found included the nematodes Porrocaecum reticulatum, Contracecum sp, Camallanus sp and Eustrongylus excisus; the cestodes Neogryporhynchus cheilancristrotus, Bothriocephalus opsariichthydis; the monogenean parasites Mazocraes alosa, Ancyrocephalus paradocus, Gyrodactylus spp, Ligophorus vanbenedenii and Dactylogyrus spp; and the crustacean parasites Ergasilus sp. and Synergasilus sp. In addition one unidentified species of nematode and a bivalve of the genus Unio was recovered from Rutilus rutilus caspius. There was no association between Fulton's condition index and intensity of parasite infection.","63":"The wild boar (Sus scrofa) has a wide geographical distribution and can be an important source of Trichinella spp. infection in humans in Romania. The objective of this study was to identify the presence of Trichinella spp. in the wild boar population in Bihor County, Romania. Eighty four plasma and diaphragm samples, collected from wild boars, were included in this study. Artificial digestion, ELISA and Western blot were performed on these specimens. All diaphragm samples were negative for Trichinella larvae in artificial digestion, while in ELISA, 54 (64.2 %) plasma samples were positive and 6 (7.1 %) plasma samples were doubtful. Western blot was performed on 26 plasma samples from which only 6 (23.0 %) gave a positive result. Serological evidences indicate the presence of Trichinella spp. in wild boars from western Romania. Therefore, human consumers might be at risk to ingest Trichinella larvae, even in low numbers.","64":"The effect of probiotic strains (Enterococcus faecium EF55, E. faecium CCM7420, E. faecium CCM8558, E. durans ED26E\/7, Lactobacillus fermentum CCM7421, L. plantarum 17L\/1) on the production of superoxide anion (O2 -) in peritoneal macrophages of Trichinella spiralis infected mice was examined. E. faecium EF55 and E. faecium CCM8558 strains increased the O2 -production prior to parasitic infection,at the day7of application.A significant inhibition of the O2 - production caused by T. spiralis infection on day 5 post infection (p.i.) was prevented by all examined strains. Lactobacilli stimulated metabolic activity of macrophages during intestinal and early muscular phase (from day 5 to 25 p.i.) of trichinellosis. Enterococci increased the O2 - production in early intestinal phase (day 5 p.i.) and during the muscular phase of trichinellosis (days 25 and 32 p.i.). Respected increase in macrophage's metabolic activity induced by probiotic treatment in the intestinal phase of trichinellosis augmented the host antiparasite defence (damage and killing of newborn larvae with reactive oxygen species from macrophages).","65":"Human echinococcosis, one of the most serious of parasitic zoonoses, is caused by the larval stages of taeniid cestodes of the genus Echinococcus. The study aimed to assess the reliability of the detection of specific antibodies to E. multilocularis and E. granulosus s.l. in human sera and to compare their diagnostic potential for their utilization in the practice. In the study, the somatic antigen of E. multilocularis (AgEm), antigen B (AgB), and the hydatid fluid antigen of E. granulosus and two commercial ELISA kits - Echinococcus granulosus (Bordier Affinity Products, Crissier, Switzerland) and NovaLisaTM Echinococcus IgG (NovaTec Immunodiagnostica, Germany) - were compared. Sera of patients with alveolar and cystic echinococcosis, and with different parasitic\/other infections were used to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity and cross-reactivity of in-house and commercial ELISA methods. AgEm presented the highest values regarding the diagnostic indicators, showing 100 % specificity and 90.0 % sensitivity. The tests for serological diagnostics of cystic echinococcosis were less sensitive and specific. The Echinococcus granulosus kit had 83.8 % specificity and 88.2 % sensitivity, while AgB and AgHF showed 85.0 % and 86.3 % specificity, and 76.5 % and 100 % sensitivity, respectively. NovaLisaTM Echinococcus IgG proved to have 95.7 % specificity and 77.8 % sensitivity. The results point out that the combination of different serological tests and approaches in accordance with clinical and imaging findings is still essential to prove the correct diagnosis in suspected patients.","66":"Dirofilaria immitis, the agent of canine dirofilariosis, is a common parasite of domestic and wild carnivores with zoonotic potential and worldwide distribution, being endemic in many countries. Bulgaria is among European countries recognized as endemic for this heartworm parasite. In the present study, D. immitis adults recovered from pulmonary arteries of domestic dog and golden jackal originating from the Pazardzhik region in southern Bulgaria, and from red fox originating from the Plovdiv region in central-southern Bulgaria, were genetically analyzed in nuclear targets. The first PCR amplification of the internal transcribed region 2 (ITS2) of the ribosomal DNA with previously published D. immitis-specific primers yielded single fragments in size of 302 bp that is characteristic for these heartworms. PCR products of three isolates, resulted from the second amplification of the 5.8S-ITS2 region (235 bp) with pan-filarioid primers, were subjected to direct DNA sequencing. Identical nucleotide composition was detected across the screened target region for these Bulgarian isolates. When the 5.8S-ITS2 sequences were phylogenetically compared to the GenBank-retrieved D. immitis sequences in a worldwide context, the neighbor-joining analysis has shown three discrete clades. The first clade was composed of D. immitis isolates from Europe (including the studied Bulgarian samples), Asia and South America, in the second clade samples from Asia and South America were placed, whereas the third clade was formed by two Brazilian dog isolates originated from the north and southeast part of the country. The purpose of the present study was to verify the taxonomic characterization of D. immitis nematodes from Bulgaria based on morphology and compare their genetic structure with filariae obtained from the different world regions using molecular assays. It also summarizes previous epidemiological and ecological studies on the parasite distribution and prevalences in different hosts and regions undertaken so far in Bulgaria.","67":"Paragonimus proliferus (P. proliferus), one of 46 Paragonimus species registered in the National Center for Biotechnology Information database, may be much more widely distributed in Southeast Asia than previously thought, as its reported natural foci have increased in the past decades. However, very little is known about its molecular biology, especially at the transcriptome level. For the first time, the transcriptome of this species was sequenced and compared with four other common Paragonimus species, namely Paragonimus skrjabini, Paragonimus kellicotti, Paragonimus miyazakii, and Paragonimus westermani, to predict homologous genes and differentially expressed homologous genes to explore interspecies differences of Paragonimus proliferus. A total of 7393 genes were found to be significantly differentially expressed. Of these, 49 were considered to be core genes because they were differentially expressed in all four comparison groups. Annotations revealed that these genes were related mainly to \"duplication, transcription, or translation\", energy or nutrient metabolism, and parasitic growth, proliferation, motility, invasion, adaptation to the host, or virulence. Interestingly, a majority (5601\/7393) of the identified genes, and in particular the core genes (48\/49), were expressed at lower levels in P. proliferus. The identified genes may play essential roles in the biological differences between Paragonimus species. This work provides fundamental background information for further research into the molecular biology of P. proliferus.","68":"Cystic echinococcosis is an important cosmopolitan parasitic zoonosis that causes public health and economic problems in Egypt. The present study was undertaken to identify genotypes of hydatid cyst (HC) DNA isolated from different animal isolates and to identify the genotype of secondary hydatid cysts (HCs) developed in rabbits experimentally infected with camel HC for detection of any genetic mutation. In the present study, we extracted DNA from the germinal layers of 8 HCs collected from 3 camels, 1 cattle, 1 sheep and 3 donkeys in addition to 3 secondary HCs collected from rabbits experimentally infected with camel HC. PCR amplification of the ITS1 gene of all examined samples showed an amplified DNA band at 1115 bp. The partial nucleotide sequences of the ITS1 gene of all isolates were aligned and compared with the reference sequences of the genotypes G1-G8 in GenBank. The camel and rabbit samples were identified as Echinococcus canadensis genotype 6 (G6), while the cattle and sheep samples belonged to E. granulosus sensu stricto (G1). The donkey isolates belonged to E. equines (G4). Alignment of the ITS1 partial nucleotide sequences of the camel HCs and rabbit secondary HCs isolates with the G6 partial nucleotide sequence in GenBank was performed. Both camel HCs and rabbit secondary HCs isolates exhibited the same sequence identity matrix, which indicated the absence of mutation in the rabbit secondary HCs. It can be concluded that camel and rabbit samples were identified as E. canadensis (G6), the cattle and sheep samples belonged to E. granulosus sensu stricto (G1) and donkey isolates belonged to E. equines (G4). No mutation occurred during HCs transmission from camel to rabbit.","69":"Crenosoma striatum is a host-specifi c metastrongiloid nematode causing respiratory tract disease in hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus). Since few studies have reported C. striatum in hedgehogs and little genetic data is available concerning this lungworm, this study aimed to determine the occurrence of C. striatum in a population sample of hedgehogs from Portugal, additionally providing morphological, histological and molecular data. From 2017 to 2018 a survey of infection was carried out in 11 necropsied hedgehogs. Worms were extracted from fresh lung tissues and microscopically evaluated. Molecular characterization of partial mitochondrial (12S rRNA) and nuclear (18S rRNA) genes was performed. The presence of lungworms in pulmonary tissues of five hedgehogs (45.5%) was detected. Morphological and histopathological analyses evidenced adult forms of nematodes consistent with C. striatum. Molecular characterization of 18S rRNA genes confirmed the classifi cation as C. striatum. Also, novel genetic data characterizing the mitochondrial (12S rRNA) gene of C. striatum is presented. This is the first report of C. striatum infection in hedgehogs of Portugal. The findings here reported provide new insights regarding the geographic distribution and the molecular identification of this lungworm species.","70":null,"71":"The aim of the present study was to investigate the efficacy and the egg reappearance period (ERP) of ivermectin (IVM) in donkeys during a 13-week period. The study involved a total of 14 adult Amiata breed donkeys, 7 - 13 years of age, and naturally infected with small strongyles. A group of 10 donkeys was treated with IVM oral paste at a dose rate of 200 mcg\/kg BW. Another group of 4 donkeys was kept as untreated control group. Faecal samples were collected and examined for strongyle eggs on day 0 before treatment. IVM efficacy was based on the faecal egg count reduction test (FECRT) on day 14 post-treatment. Then individual faecal samples were collected and examined by FECRT at weekly intervals. A FECRT of 100 % was found after treatment with IVM and its ERP, defined as the week when the mean FECRT decreased until to become lower than 90 %efficacy, was estimated to be 11 weeks without signs of developing anthelmintic resistance. No adverse reactions were observed during the study period. Our findings may be useful to veterinary practitioners and breeders as they show that IVM, at the recommended dose rate, can be still considered a highly effective and safe pharmacological tool for the treatment of small strongyles in donkeys. Therefore, it is strongly recommended that all possible strategies are undertaken to avoid the risk of emergence of anthelmintic resistance to IVM in donkeys.","72":"Three clinical cases of dogs with Pearsonema plica infection were detected in the western part of Slovakia. All cases were detected within five months. Infections were confirmed after positive findings of capillarid eggs in the urine sediment in following breeds. The eight years old Jack Russell Terrier, one year old Italian Greyhound, and eleven years old Yorkshire terrier were examined and treated. In one case, the infection was found accidentally in clinically healthy dog. Two other patients had nonspecific clinical signs such as apathy, inappetence, vomiting, polydipsia and frequent urination. This paper describes three individual cases, including the case history, clinical signs, examinations, and therapies. All data were obtained by attending veterinarian as well as by dog owners.","73":null,"74":"Analysis of soil nematode feeding groups and functional guilds were used as a valuable tool to detect heavy metal pollution. Effects of cadmium (Cd) at 5 mg\/kg, mercury (Hg) at 20mg\/kg, combined Cd and Hg at 5+20mg\/kg on the nematode communities were studied after three months application. Nematodes were collected from soil in rhizosphere of Morning glories (Pharhiris nil) which were applied as heavy metal accumulators and were grown in the experimental pots. Both single and combined heavy metals had marked effects on the nematode abundance, life-history strategies and feeding type composition. Bacteriovores and c-p 2 group were found to be the most abundant trophic group and functional guild, respectively. Acrobeloides and Pratylenchus were the most two abundant genera, decreasing number of them was responsible for the significant difference between control and polluted treatments. Cd-5 and Cd-Hg 5+20 presented lower values of nematode diversity index (H') and evenness index (J') than Hg-20. The combination of Cd and Hg showed lower nematode trophic diversity (TD), in comparison with single Cd or Hg. Conversely, heavy metals addition exhibited no pronounced effect on Maturity index (MI), structural index (SI) and enrichment index (EI). Our results demonstrate that genera composition is a better indicator to short-term heavy metal effects than some common indicator indices and emphasize that deeper assemblage analyses are needed for a correct interpretation of short-term disturbance on soil nematodes.","75":null,"76":"The mouse bile duct tapeworm Hymenolepis microstoma, is a potentially zoonotic species with a wide variety of reported definitive hosts of rodent genera. In the present study the occurrence of H. microstoma in free-living small mammals in selected areas of Slovakia and the retrospective analysis of epidemiological data published in Slovakia were performed. Hymenolepis microstoma was detected in two animal species, the common shrew (Sorex araneus) and the European hamster (Cricetus cricetus) of 186 small mammals examined from two ecosystems, urban and natural ecosystem of national park. No mention about the presence of this parasite in Slovakia in the past was found following a bibliographical search. Partial sequences of the nuclear paramyosin gene showed the shrew isolate placed in a subclade together with H. microstoma from Portugal, with high bootstrap value for its differentiation from the sister species Hymenolepis nana. Similarly, the analysis of the nuclear ribosomal ITS region placed the hamster isolate in the cluster composed of H. microstoma from Australia, Spain and Portugal. The Slovak isolate was the most distinctive sample among available H. microstoma, differing in 1.4 - 1.9% of nucleotides from the remaining isolates. The difference (seven of 17 nucleotide positions) was partially due to indel polymorphisms associated with two and five nucleotides. To our knowledge, these are the first reports of H. microstoma in Central Europe and also the first record of infection in the common shrew. A recently indicated zoonotic potential of H. microstoma along with a possibility of its direct transmission between animals and\/or humans without the need of intermediate hosts pose a public health concern in contaminated areas of Slovakia. The use of molecular techniques may substantially facilitate more thorough understanding of the epidemiological situation of H. microstoma and related tapeworms in various ecosystems of the country.","77":null,"78":"","79":"The aim of this study was to investigate whether Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assays (ELISA) and Western Blotting (WB) methods could contribute to the assessment of clinical outcomes in genotype-defined cystic echinococcosis (CE) patients. Twenty-nine human isolates and blood samples have been taken from patients who underwent surgery or percutaneous aspiration (PAIR) for therapeutic purposes at Ege University and Manisa Celal Bayar University Hospitals. All sera of patients were screened for the presence of E. granulosus IgG antibodies using in-house approved ELISA and WB methods. According to the ELISA results, five patients had high, thirteen patients had medium and eight patients had low specific antibody level response which ranged 1\/640 -1\/5000. Despite confirmed WB positivity three patients were found to be negative by ELISA. Immunoblot analysis of EgAg showed many protein bands with size of 8, 12, 20, 22, 24, 36, 75 and 90 kDa. Among of them, 8 - 12 kDa bands (90 %), 20 - 22 kDa and 36 kDa bands presented strong reactivity against human serum specimens. No serum samples from healthy control reacted with EgAg. Phylogenetic analysis of resulting COX1 and NAD1sequences has revealed that all patients in our study were infected with the E. granulosus G1-G3 genotype. There was no consistent correlation between results of ELISA and WB, the number or size of cysts and genotype. Our study brings a unique contribution in terms of relationship between serological investigation, disease genotypes and clinical outcomes.","80":"Toxocara canis of dogs and Toxocara vitulorum of cattle and buffalo are nematode parasites that cause serious economic and public health problems all over the world. This study aims to provide molecular data to identify and distinguish between Toxocara spp. from dogs, cattle and buffalo in Egypt. Moreover, constructing a phylogeny and phylogenetic relationships among these Toxocara spp. were performed through an analytic study of ATPase-6, a mitochondrial gene; 12S, small subunit ribosomal RNA gene and ITS-2, the second internal transcribed spacer nuclear ribosomal gene. T. vitulorum from cattle and buffalo were found to be almost identical. The ATPase- 6 and 12S regions showed 87.78 % and 90.38 % nucleotide similarity between T. canis and T. vitulorum, while for the ITS-2 region, only 78.38 % was found. Analysis of the three studied genes revealed that each Toxocara spp. has distinct molecular characteristics. Moreover, it was revealed that these genes, especially the ITS-2 gene, are useful and sensitive molecular markers for classifying and studying the phylogenetic analysis and relationships among closely related Toxocara spp. All sequences obtained in this study were registered in the GenBank under the accession numbers: MG214149 -MG214157.","81":"The study evaluated the effectiveness of a commercially available polyherbal dewormer to control intestinal strongyles in naturally infected donkeys. The animals were allotted to two groups: treated with the herbal dewormer (n=8) according to manufacturer recommendations and untreated control group (n=6). Fecal samples were taken from each animal on days 0 (day of treatment), 14, 21 (day of second additional treatment), 35, and 42. Faecal egg count reduction tests showed very negligible or no reduction in number of strongyle eggs for donkeys in the phytotherapeutic treatment group compared to those in the control group. Thus, the herbal dewormer was mostly ineffective in reducing fecal egg counts in donkeys infected with intestinal strongyles. These findings can make equine practitioners aware of possible disadvantages of herbal dewormers.","82":"Two species of digenetic trematodes of the genus Pleurogenoides viz., P. cyanophlycti Shinad &amp; Prasadan (2018a) and P. euphlycti Shinad &amp; Prasadan (2018b) have been described from India. Information regarding the molecular data of various species of the genus Pleurogenoides Travassos, 1921 is virtually lacking. This study addresses the application of molecular markers to validate the phylogenetic position of P. cyanophlycti and P. euphlycti. In the present study, two species P. cyanophlycti and P. euphlycti were collected between January 2016 to October 2017, infecting the freshwater frogs inhabiting the Western Ghats, India. In the present study, the two species were identifi ed morphologically and by PCR amplification of the 28S ribosomal RNA gene. Phylogenetic tree results clearly demonstrate that both P. cyanophlycti and P. euphlycti belongs to the family Pleurogenidae Looss, 1899. Based on these results, we presented and discussed the phylogenetic relationships of P. cyanophlycti and P. euphlycti within family Pleurogenidae from India. Phylogenetic analyses showed that P. cyanophlycti and P. euphlycti cluster according to their vertebrate host and revealed an important congruence between the phylogenetic trees of Pleurogenoides and of their vertebrate hosts. P. cyanophlycti and P. euphlycti clearly constitute a separate, sister branch with other species of the genera, Pleurogenoides, Pleurogenes (=Candidotrema), Prosotocus and Brandesia. The present study firstly provides important information about the molecular study and phylogenetic analysis of P. cyanophlycti and P. euphlycti. This study will also serve as a baseline for Pleurogenoides species identifi cation for further studies.","83":"Echinococcus granulosus is a tapeworm whose life cycle includes dogs and other canines as final hosts, while domestic and wild ungulates act as intermediate hosts for the tissue-invading larval stage (metacestode). E. granulosus has a worldwide geographical distribution. Protoscolices and rostellar hooks of E. granulosus are useful for diagnosis and rostellar hook morphometric features may be useful to discriminate E. granulosus and related species. The present study was aimed to determine a more suitable lytic solution and to obtain a clearest vision for performing morphometric studies on the rostellar hooks of E. granulosus protoscolices. Five fertile hydatid cyst samples were collected from sheep in Kirkuk slaughterhouse, Iraq, during June of 2015. According to the results of the present study, proteinase-K lytic solution is the best approach in morphometric analysis to get a clear vision of rostellar hooks and a safer usage in comparison with solutions containing lactophenol (lactophenol, lactophenol blue).","84":"Reintroduction of endangered species to natural habitat is considered as an important tool for conservation. The effect of drug management on captive population of reintroduced species is largely neglected. Decreased drug efficacy could pose a substantial threat to health of animals. More importantly, captive population without proper drug administration could act as transmission medium of resistance nematodes to wild population, making it important to delay the occurrence of drug resistance in captive population. Ivermectin have been used in captive Przewalski's horse (Equus ferus przewalskii) to eradicate intestinal parasitic nematodes annually, while no available studies describing the drug efficacy in the recent ten years. Here, fecal egg counts pre- and post-treatment were performed with ivermectin through individual trace. Both large and small strongyles were identifi ed by larval culture. The fecal egg count reduction was almost 100% based on egg counting data of 448 samples from 13 Przewalski's horses. Feces of two Przewalski's horses were sampled for successive 20 days. Eggs per gram feces usually increased dramatically at the period of 1 - 2 post-treatment days and declined persistently to 0.0 within 15 days. A sustained high ivermectin efficacy against neither Parascaris equorum nor strongyles was indicated, which can be partly explained by the low deworm frequency.","85":"Dirofilaria immitis (Nematoda: Filarioidea) is the causative agent of heartworm disease (HWD), a severe and potentially fatal condition in dogs. Although cats are considered more resistant to infection than dogs, they are also susceptible to heartworm infection. Moreover, the clinical importance of feline dirofilariosis has increased in recent years, especially in heartworm endemic areas. In contrast to dog, definitive antemortem diagnosis of heartworm infection in cat is difficult to achieve and a combination of testing methods must be used for clinical confirmation. Here we describe a clinical case of heartworm infection in a 12-year-old male mixed breed cat, originated from Southern Romania, which was referred to a veterinary clinic with a history of vomiting and clinical signs of respiratory distress. The thoracic radiograph showed a diffuse bronchointerstitial pattern of the pulmonary parenchyma. The serological test for D. immitis circulating antibody was positive and heartworms were visualized by echocardiography in the main pulmonary artery. In conclusion, the present study clearly shows that cats are at risk for D. immitis infection in heartworm-endemic areas in Romania. Additionally, the findings highlight the urgent need for increased awareness among veterinary practitioners of the existence of feline heartworm diseases and for adequate prophylactic measures to be applied. To our knowledge, this is the first report on clinical evolution and radiographic and echocardiographic features of a naturally heartworm-infected cat in Romania.","86":"Dioctophyma renale is the largest nematode that infects domestic mammals and is the aetiologic agent of a serious renal disease, dioctophymatosis. It has an indirect life cycle with carnivores serving as final hosts and earthworms as intermediate hosts. The parasite can infect humans with signifi cant zoonotic potential. The pathogenesis of dioctophymatosis is mainly associated with the extent of renal atrophy caused by the parasites, the risk of bilateral renal infestation and the location of the parasite (extrarenal cases). Clinical diagnosis is challenging, and the only treatment option is nephrectomy or nephrotomy to remove the adult nematode. A 6-year-old female crossbreed dog presented with tachypnea, tachycardia and severe hematuria, but died shortly after presentation. Postmortem examination found the right kidney was enlarged and two adult nematodes were found in the renal pelvis. The left kidney was normal. The nematodes were collected and submitted for identifi cation. The two specimens were identifi ed as D. renale using specific identifi cation keys. Herein we present the first case of renal parasitosis by the nematode D. renale in a dog from Greece. This case highlights the need for investigation of the actual prevalence of the parasite and the use of measures for the control of its expansion aiming the protection of dogs and public health.","87":"Based on morphology, measurements of juveniles and female specimens and sequences of the D2\/ D3 expansion 28S rDNA gene and ITS1 analysis by DNA barcode technique, a Xiphinema americanum group species associated with olive trees from state of Sao Paulo, Brazil was identifi ed as X. santos. This is the first report of X. santos in Southern Hemisphere and outside the European and African continents, thus extending its geographic range.","88":null,"89":"Urinary schistosomosis is a serious public health problem prevalent in low-income rural regions of sub-Saharan Africa, including coastal part of Kenya. Praziquantel administration to school-aged children is the prevailing tool of schistosomosis control in these regions. The aim of our study was to find out if this control strategy can lead to interruption of parasite trasmission and disease elimination. During February and March 2018, the occurrence of urinary schistosomosis in volunteers of primary health care facilities in Kwale County, Kenya was examined and the occurrence of infected intermediate hosts Bulinus globosus in local water resources was monitored. Participants completed a questionnaire concerning source of water for household purposes, type of housing and health status and were asked to provide urine samples. Diagnosis of urinary schistosomosis was established by detection of Schistosoma haematobium eggs in urine specimens microscopically, using filtration method. Infected B. globosus snails were detected using cercaria shedding tests. From the hemolymph of snails, prepatent period of infection was identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The presence of urinary schistosomosis was detected in 15.07 % (69 out of 451) of study participants. Cercaria shedding test was positive in 2 particular sites of river Pengo and Tsanganyiko. Genetic material (haemolymph) of 68 B. globosus snails tested by DraI PCR revealed 7 Schistosoma spp. positive samples. Six of seven DraI positive snails were infected by S. haematobium, as it was detected by Sh110\/SmS1 PCR. The study revealed, that the disease was still present in the region studied and the transmission was not interrupted. The rate of infection was significantly influenced by the water supplies used for household purposes and the type of housing.","90":"The aim of the present study is to perform a retrospective analysis of the prevalence of intestinal parasitic infections among the Bulgarian population over the period 2015 - 2017. The study involved all Bulgarians and foreign nationals residing in the country who had been tested for intestinal protozoa and helminths. A total of 23,785 infections have been revealed, of which 17,712 (74.47 %) were helminth and 6,073 (25.53 %) protozoan invasions. Enterobiasis was found to be the most prevalent among patients infected with intestinal helminths (81.75 %), while giardiasis (62.05 %) was the most common among those diagnosed with protozoan infections. In spite of improved living conditions and increasing public health awareness, parasitic diseases in general, and intestinal parasitic infections in particular, still represent a significant part of the overall morbidity in Bulgaria, thus posing a major issue for the public health care system.","91":"Paratrajectura longcementglandatus Amin, Heckmann et Ali, 2018 (Transvenidae) was recently described from two species of percid fishes collected from the marine territorial waters of Iraq and Iran in the Persian Gulf. The genus Paratrajectura Amin, Heckmann et Ali, 2018 is a close relative to transvenid genera Trajectura Pichelin et Crib, 2001 and Transvena Pichelin et Crib, 2001. Morphologically, Paratrajectura is characterised by having apical proboscis cone, long, tubular cement glands, short lemnisci, prominent roots on all proboscis hooks, subterminal female gonopore, and males with long pre-equatorial testes. Molecular studies of P. longcementglandatus using 18S rDNA and cox1 genes compared with available data of members of other families of Echinorhynchida showed that P. longcementglandatus is grouped with species of the genus Transvena forming a clade within the family Transvenidae.","92":"The occurrence of zoonotic parasitic nematodes in Atlantic chub mackerels (Scomber colias syn. Scomber japonicus) from Libyan waters was investigated, using epizootiological estimations and molecular specific characterization of larvae. Nematodes belonging to Anisakis spp., the main etiological agent of anisakiasis in Mediterranean waters, and to Hysterothylacium spp. so far considered not pathogenic to humans, were detected. Prevalence values were generally high in visceral cavities (over 40 % for both parasites) while were low for Anisakis (around 1 %) and null for Hysterothylacium in muscles. Moreover, the level of infections was associated with seasons, a feature potentially useful to plan fishing captures and to elaborate risk mitigation strategies for anisakiasis. Species molecular identification performed on a subsample described the presence of Hysterothylacium aduncum as the predominant species, along with Anisakis pegreffii and the hybrids (A. pegreffii and A. simplex sensu stricto), thus posing a concrete zoonotic risk following the consumption of such fish species as a raw preparation.","93":"The striped red mullet Mullus surmuletus (Linnaeus, 1758) (Perciformis: Mullidae) has a high commercial value and therewithal is a common demersal fish of the Mediterranean Sea, therefore studying the helminth parasites of this fish is required. Anisakids nematodes are common parasites of animals including human causing economic losses and different parasitic diseases. During the present study, the nematode Dujardinascaris spp. (Anisakidae) was described from the body cavity and small intestine of Mullus surmuletus in the Alexandria, Mediterranean Sea, Egypt as new host and new geographical record. Forty-five (37.5%) fish out of (120) were found infected by the parasite. The morphological features of the collected nematode were investigated by both light and scanning electron microscopy. The study revealed that the specimens were characterized from other species of the genus by the presence of two large lateral pouches attached to each cephalic lip, the different large-sized papillae on the cephalic region and on the dorsal surface of the nematode cuticle.","94":"Pyelosomum cochlear Looss 1899 (Digenea: Pronocephalidae) is a parasite exclusive to sea turtles, having been described in the green turtle (Chelonia mydas) in Egypt, the USA, Panama, Costa Rica and Brazil as well as the olive ridley turtle (Lepidochelys olivacea) in Brazil. The present note describes the first occurrence of P. cochlear in a hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) found on the coast of Brazil.","95":"Dirofilaria immitis (heartworm) is a zoonotic and an emerging disease, expanding in Europe. In Bulgaria, the presence of the parasite has been described in many regions. However, canine heartworm has hardly been evaluated in the capital of the country and, therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence and distribution of canine heartworm in Sofia. Eighty stray dogs from the city of Sofia and the metropolitan area were analysed for circulating D. immitis antigens. The prevalence was 31.25 %, being 34.7 % in the metropolitan area and 25.8 % in the city of Sofia. The current results are among the highest reported in the country. This could be due to the lack of prophylactic measures against infection in these dogs, but also to the spread of D. immitis into non-endemic countries. Stray dogs may act as an important reservoir of heartworm being a risk for client-owned animals and for the development of pulmonary dirofilariosis in inhabitants. The results show the need to establish further epidemiological studies and prophylactic campaigns for stray and client-owned animals, as well as to create awareness campaigns about the severity and importance of this disease for both animals and humans.","96":"The necropsy of a leopard (Panthera pardus), succumbed to a chronic ailment exhibited a mixed parasitic gastroenteritis. Gross internal examination of carcass revealed the presence of round and tapeworms in the stomach and intestines with diffuse catarrhal and hemorrhagic gastroenteritis. The detailed examination of the intestinal content revealed the presence of Toxocara canis and Spirometra species eggs. Also, the gross morphological investigation of round and tapeworms approved the presence of both species. Histo-pathological examination showed sloughing of intestinal epithelium, hemorrhages, and ulcerative areas with the infiltration of polymorphonuclear cells admixed with mononuclear cells. Lungs revealed the accumulation of eosinophilic edematous fl uid in the alveolar spaces along with inflammatory cells. These parasites are pathogenic to precious wild felids and often pose a threat of zoonotic transmission due to spill-over infections. The present case study is an attempt to put on record a case of parasitic gastroenteritis in a captive leopard.","97":null,"98":"A total of 80 specimens of three species of lacertid Podarcis muralis (39), Podarcis siculus (18) and Ophisops elegans (23) from Bursa were examined for helminths. One species of Digenea, Plagiorchis elegans, 1 species of Cestoda, Mesocestoides sp. (tetrathyridium); and 3 species of Nematoda, Skrjabinodon medinae, Spauligodon saxicolae and Skrjabinelazia hoffmanni were found. The helminths reported in this study are generalist helminths that infect a number of lizards.","99":"Our study describes changes in haematological parameters in wild ruminants with parasitic infection. Six European mouflons (Ovis musimon), six fallow deer (Dama dama) and six roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) were experimentally infected with the resistant strain of the model parasite 8000 L3 Haemonchus contortus. The blood samples were collected on Day 0, 16, 37, 58, 77, and 99 of the experiment. Mild anaemia was observed in mouflons and roe deer while red blood cells increased in red blood counts (total erythrocytes, haematocrit and haemoglobin). As for the white blood cells count, leucopenia with neutrophilia and lymphopenia was recorded in mouflons, in the fallow deer and roe deer leucocytosis with neutropenia and lymphocytosis were observed. Changes in the dynamics of haematological parameters were statistically insignificant.","100":null,"101":"Schoolchildren in primary schools are mostly at risk of acquiring soil-transmitted helminths (STHs) infections due to their habits (geophagy, onychophagy and playing with barefoot). Profiling soil parasites on school playgrounds is expected to provide an insight to an array of parasites schoolchildren are constantly at risk of acquiring; and this information could guide on intervention programmes. Soil samples from sixteen primary school playgrounds in Edo State (South-South, Nigeria) were collected over a six-month period both in the dry (January, February and March) and wet (May, June and July) seasons in 2018 and early 2019. Samples were processed and analysed following standard parasitological procedures. Of the 576 soil samples collected, 318(55.2 %) were positive with one or more soil parasites. Generally, the predominant parasites recovered from the total number of soil samples collected were: Ascaris 127(22 %), Strongyloides 111(19.27 %) and hookworm 50(8.68 %). Ascaris was most preponderant in the dry season, while Strongyloides was the most occurring in the wet season. The mean differences in the parasite load for Ascaris and hookworm between dry and wet seasons were not significant; while for Strongyloides it was higher in the wet than dry season. These results could be a consequence of observed poor state of toilet\/sanitary facilities as well as the lack or poor state of basic infrastructure like proper drainage and waste disposal systems in the host communities. There is therefore urgent need to interrupt the STHs transmission cycles in the environment and possibly in schoolchildren by instituting sustainable intervention programmes within schools located in STHs endemic regions like southern Nigeria.","102":"The study examined subpopulations of lymphocytes in peripheral blood, spleen, and jejunum including morphology of that segment in broiler chicken farm after treatment with flubendazole (Flimabend) and natural extract from chestnut wood (Farmatan). A total of 24 forty-day-old Kalimero-Super Master hybrid chickens were divided into 4 groups (n=6): the Fli group received Flimabend per os, 100 mg\/g suspension in 1.43 mg of active substance\/kg body weight during 7 day of experiment, Far group received Farmatan per os at 0.2 % concentration for 6 hours per day during 5 day (experimental days - from 3 to 7); the Far+Fli group received a combination of doses administered in the same way as for the first two groups; and control -C group with no active substance administration. The results demonstrated mild increase of leukocytes, lymphocytes, monocytes, leucocyte common antigen CD45, IgM+ and IgA+ cells in peripheral blood after administration of Flimabend. Similarly, subpopulations of followed lymphocytes (CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, IgM+) were increased in the jejunum after application of that drug. On the other hand, administration of Farmatan revealed opposite effect on determined immunocompetent cells what proves anti-inflammatory effect. Morphology of villi was also negatively influenced by administration of Flimabend. Administration of Farmatan suggests also its preventive administration in chickens. This tanin-containing drug as plant natural product may be used due to its antibacterial activity and as promising alternative to conventional drug with possible antihelminthic effect.","103":"The present study proposes a new methodology for the quantification of parasite eggs in animal tissue. Quantification of parasites are important to understand epidemiology of spirorchiid infections in sea turtles, however different methodologies for quantifying Spirorchiidae eggs in turtle tissues have been used. The most representative way to quantify Spirorchiidae burdens in tissues is counting eggs \/ g of tissue, however, this method is very laborious. As an alternative, we propose quantifying number of Spirorchiidae eggs\/ area of tissue on a microscope slide. We compared this method to number of eggs \/ slide, a common metric of egg burden in turtle tissues. Both methods correlated well with eggs \/ g with eggs\/mm2 of tissue having better correlation.","104":"Fourty seven specimens of Pelophylax ridibundus were collected in the vicinity of Shiraz, Fars Province, Iran in 1972. Fourteen helminth species were found, eight digeneans (Diplodiscus subclavatus, Halipegus alhaussaini, Haematoloechus similis, Codonocephalus urniger, and four species of metacercariae) and 6 nematodes (Cosmocerca ornata, Rhabdias bufonis, Abbreviata sp., Eustrongylides sp., Onchocercidae gen. sp. and one species of larval nematodes). Of these, only six are adults, while 8 are in their larval stage. The most prevalent helminths were the metacercariae of Codonocephalus urniger (61.7%) and the larvae Abbreviata sp. (55.32%). The adults with the highest prevalence are the digenean Halipegus alhaussaini, and the nematode Cosmocerca ornata (34% in both cases).","105":"Diphyllobothriosis is a fish-borne parasitic zoonosis caused by so-called \"broad tapeworms\" or \"fish tapeworms\" of different genera of the order Diphyllobothriidea. Dibothriocephalus latus (Linnaeus 1758), (syn. Diphyllobothrium latum), is a medically important type species of the genus, whose occurrence in various European regions is either regular, e.g. in the Alpine lakes region, or occasional and sporadic, e. g. in the Danube River region. For the latter, data on the detection of D. latus plerocercoids in the second intermediate fish host (European perch Perca fluviatilis), as well as in definitive hosts (human and dog), in which infection was directly linked to the consumption of infected fish from the Danube, were published more than 50 years ago. In order to assess the current situation, we aimed to find out whether D. latus is present in the natural environment of the Danube River. In total, 700 perch from five sampling sites in the Slovak part of the Danube River were examined. Plerocercoids were not detected in any fish examined, which leads to the conclusion that D. latus is currently not present in the studied aquatic environment.","106":"Genus Setaria, Viborg 1795, comprises 46 species that parasitize in the peritoneal cavity of Artiodactyla, Perissodactyla and Hyracoidea. The majority of these infections pass unnoticed, but occasionally they can induce severe peritonitis or neurological signs in aberrant hosts and, rarely, even in humans. In this paper we describe for the first time the finding of Setaria tundra in roe deer in Croatia. We examined 45 roe deer and determined the presence of Setaria nematodes in 24.4% of samples, which were subsequently diagnosed as Setaria tundra using molecular methods.","107":"Autochthonous Dirofilaria repens infections have been found in dogs and other carnivores in most European countries. In the same countries, reports of human dirofilariasis are becoming increasingly prevalent. We present 18 cases of people infected with D. repens for a 10-year period traced in our hospital. The data was collected from the observations and tests of all 18 patients from the whole country treated at the Specialized Hospital for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases in Sofia in the period 2009 - 2018. We used a morphological method, serology test and Knott's method for microfilariae. The patients were 11 to 74 years of age, 12 female and 6 male. In most cases, patients have subcutaneous nodules or face, eyelid and eyes localization. The trend of increasing incidence in Bulgaria continues, with age and sex distribution and localization of the larva being similar to those in other European countries.","108":"A new root-knot nematode, parasitizing Robusta coffee in Dak Lak Province, Western Highlands of Vietnam, is described as Meloidogyne moensi n. sp. Morphological and molecular analyses demonstrated that this species differs clearly from other previously described root-knot nematodes. Morphologically, the new species is characterized by a swollen body of females with a small posterior protuberance that elongated from ovoid to saccate; perineal patterns with smooth striae, continuous and low dorsal arch; lateral lines marked as a faint space or linear depression at junction of the dorsal and ventral striate; distinct phasmids; perivulval region free of striae; visible and wide tail terminus surrounding by concentric circles of striae; medial lips of females in dumbbell-shaped and slightly raised above lateral lips; female stylet is normally straight with posteriorly sloping stylet knobs; lip region of second stage juvenile (J2) is not annulated; medial lips and labial disc of J2 formed dumbbell shape; lateral lips are large and triangular; tail of J2 is conoid with rounded unstriated tail tip; distinct phasmids and hyaline; dilated rectum. Meloidogyne moensi n. sp. is most similar to M. africana, M. ottersoni by prominent posterior protuberance. Results of molecular analysis of rDNA sequences including the D2-D3 expansion regions of 28S rDNA, COI, and partial COII\/16S rRNA of mitochondrial DNA support for the new species status.","109":"We morphologically and molecularly characterized segmented filamentous bacteria (SFB) associated with Rhigonema sp. nematodes in millipede hindguts. Seventy-three Riukiaria sp. millipedes were collected from a broad-leaf forest in Japan, and nematodes were excised from the millipede's hindguts. The occurrence rate of SFB associated with nematodes was 24 % (10\/41) for males, 47 % (14\/30) for females, and 100 % (2\/2) for juveniles. Genomic DNA was extracted from four SFB-rich nematode heads, and we obtained 40 bacterial clones via analysis of nearly full-length 16S rDNA gene sequences. At the phylum level, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, and Verrucomicrobia accounted for 55 %, 40 %, and 5 % of SFB, respectively. In Firmicutes, Clostridiaceae (28 %) and Lachnospiraceae (15 %) were the dominant groups. Our sequences were divided into seven and three subclades between Firmicutes and Proteobacteria in the phylogenetic tree. In the Firmicutes clade, eight sequences were classified as Lachnospiraceae with a bootstrap value &gt;83 %. A phylogenetic tree involving known uncultured Lachnospiraceae sequences characterized the phylogenetic position of SFB associated with nematodes. Our results suggest that the association of SFB with nematode bodies was probably incidental and that SFB are not always present in millipede hindguts. Our bacterial groups corresponded to those of arthropod hindgut, and SFB associated with nematodes were inferred to belong to Lachnospiraceae. Because the Lachnospiraceae sequences obtained in this study showed specific lineages that differed from all the known deposited sequence data, these groups may be unique to Riukiaria sp.","110":"The aim of this investigation was to identify the parasites present in the largely understudied pleasure oyster Crassostrea corteziensis in Sinaloa state in the northwestern Mexican Pacific coast. Inspection of twenty-eight oysters collected on \"Ceuta\" lagoon revealed the presence of the digenean Stephanostomum sp. (Digenea: Acanthocolpidae) cysts. Metacercariae were found encapsulated and embedded in the digestive gland and mantle tissue of oysters. The prevalence of infection revealed that 84.6 % were infected, the abundance was 13.62, with a mean intensity of 16.09 per host. The members of this genus are characterized by a double crown of spines in the cephalic region surrounding the buccal opening of the worm. Significantly, we report the first incidence of the digenean Stephanostomum sp of the family Acanthocolpidae parasitizing Crassostrea corteziensis. Further we report that this bivalve is now considered a new intermediate host, and the northwestern Mexican Pacific coast is a new geographical distribution area for this digenean. The findings contribute to our understanding of the biology, biodiversity and host preference of these parasites, with implications for health risks posed by human consumption of the pleasure oyster.","111":"The laboratory experiment described in this article evaluated the death rate of larvae of Haemonchus contortus (Rudolphi, 1803) nematodes of the Strongylida order and Strongyloides papillosus (Wedl, 1856) of the Rhabditida order under the impact of different concentrations of 8 flavouring acids and source materials approved for use in and on foods and in medicine (formic, wine, benzoic, salicylic, stearic, kojic, aminoacetic, succinic acids). Minimum LD50 for third stage larvae of (L3) S. papillosus was observed with salicylic and wine acids, for L3 H. contortus larvae - with formic acid. Minimum impact on all studied stages of development of nematodes was caused by stearic, kojic, aminoacetic and succinic acids: larvae did not die in the course of one day even at 1 % concentration of these substances. The best parameters of LD50 were observed for benzoic and formic acid. Further experiments on flavouring acids and source materials approved for use in and on foods and in medicines, and also their compounds, will contribute to developing preparations with a stronger impact on nematode larvae - parasites of the digestive tract of vertebrate animals and humans.","112":"Echinococosis is a zoonotic disease caused by the larval stages of Echinococcus spp. that occurs in most parts of the world. Herein, we aimed to evaluate the genotypes of isolated hydatid cysts from slaughtered animals in Shush county, southwestern Iran. Totally, 96 hydatid cysts were collected, including 11 buffaloes, 13 cattle, 12 goat and 60 sheep. The PCR was done by a primer pair (BDI and 4s) to amplify ITS1 fragment. Four restriction endonucleases including AluI, HpaII, RsaI, and TaqI were used for RFLP products and enzymatic reactions were electrophoresed. Finally, twenty PCR products were sent for sequencing and phylogenetic tree was drawn with MEGA6. Molecular identification of 96 hydatid cysts demonstrated a distinctive 1000 bp fragment in all samples from four animal hosts. RFLP analysis showed similar digestion patterns in all samples. AluI digestion yielded 800 bp and 200 bp fragments, HpaII digestion made 700 bp and 300 bp fragments and RsaI digestion entailed 655 and 345segments. Moreover, TaqI rendered no digestion pattern on rDNA-ITS1 region. Additionally, E. granulosus sensu stricto (G1-3 complex) was the prevailing genotype in all livestock samples, according to PCR-RFLP and sequencing analyses.","113":null,"114":"The present note describes the occurrence of Rhytidodoides intestinalis and Rhytidodoides similis (Digenea: Rhytidodidae) in the gallbladder of two juvenile green turtles (Chelonia mydas - Testudines, Cheloniidae) found on the coast of Brazil. Both were detected in gallbladder and intestine of green turtles: Rhytidodoides similis (United States, Panama, Costa Rica and Brazil) and R. intestinais (United States, Panama and Costa Rica). This note is the first report of R. intestinalis in Brazil and South-West Atlantic Ocean. Also the histological lesions caused by the parasites in one gallbladder are described.","115":null,"116":"Details about the record of ajuvenile mermithid roundworm parasitizing the bark spiderCaerostris sumatrana Strand,1915 from Thailand are presented.The morphology and ecology of both organisms is discussed. Morphological features suggest this juvenile nematode belongs to the genus cf.- Aranimermis. Due to the sub adult stage of parasite, identification to species-level was not possible. This first report of a nematode infection in C. sumatrana with several recent findings from other studies significantly adds to the current inventory of mermithids parasitizng spiders. Moreover, our finding is among the first record of this host-parasite interaction from Southeast Asia.","117":"During a survey on tapeworm larval stages in Artemia franciscana from an artificial pond in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, a high prevalence of Eurycestus avoceti-like cysticercoids was established. Adult male and female crustaceans showed a prevalence of 61.9 and 62.7 %, respectively. The intensity ranged from one to four and one to three cyst, respectively. Out of 215 examined cysticercoids, 207 specimens had morphological features matching with E. avoceti. The flaky structure of the surrounding capsule, the elongated shape of the cysticercoid and the larger number of hooklets on the suckers suggest that the eight further larval cestodes belonged to another species of the genus Eurycestus.","118":null,"119":"The metazoan parasites were investigated of two flatfish the common sole, Solea solea (n:140) and the scaldfish, Arnoglossus laterna (n: 22) in the Sinop coast of Black Sea from June 2015 to June 2017. A total of 15 metazoan parasite species belonging to Digenea (6), Cestoda (3), Acanthocephala (1), Nematoda (4) and Isopoda (1) taxonomic groups were identified. Solea solea was found to be infected by Condylocotyla pilodora, Proctoeces maculatus, Opecoelidae gen. sp., Metadena sp., Stephanostomum sp., Progrillotia sp., Capillaria gracilis, Cucullanus campanae, Solearhynchus rhytidotes and Nerocila orbignyi. Arnoglossus laterna was found to be infected by Lecithochirium musculus and Grillotia erinaceus. Scolex pleuronectis, Hysterothylacium aduncum and Dichelyne minutus were determined in both flatfish. Infection prevalence and mean intensity values were recorded for each parasite species. Infection values for each parasite species in relation to season and fish size were also determined and compared as comparatively. This study is the first one assessing the metazoan parasites both of S. solea and A. laterna collected from the Turkish coast of Black Sea. While Condylocotyle pilodora and Capillaria gracilis are new parasite records for S. solea, Grillotia erinecaus is new parasite record for A. laterna. Moreover, this paper is the first report on occurrence of Opecoelidae gen. sp., Metadena and Stephanostomum genera in S. solea.","120":null,"121":"Faecal samples were collected from 224 dogs (47 villages) in Ankara. Toxocara spp. eggs were diagnosed in faeces using centrifugal flotation and sedimentation methods. A total of 21 dogs (9.38 %) were positive for Toxocara spp. eggs. In this study, we used the PCR technique that, in combination with DNA sequencing, allows the detection and identification of T.canis eggs in faeces of infected dogs. For this purpose, the ATPase subunit-6 gene (mtDNA) was selected as a target for the amplification T. canis. The primers were used to amplify 217 bp region. Amongst 21 coproscopically detected Toxocara isolates from dogs, 5 (23.8 %) samples were PCR-positive for T. canis, and the remaining 16 samples were PCR-negative. Results indicate that PCR can detect Toxocara canis DNA in faeces of infected dogs, but efficacy was low when compare to sedimentation\/flotation. PCR is additional test for diagnosing of this infection. But, the difficulties of identification based on PCR in faecal examinations need to be investigated further.","122":null,"123":"The control of the digenetic trematode Fasciola gigantica has been the major challenge in both cattle and small ruminants as there is a paucity of an effective and commercial vaccine. Thus, the accurate identification and prepatent diagnosis of F. gigantica is an essential prerequisite for its successful prevention and control. In the present study, the morphologically identified specimens isolated from the liver and bile ducts of sheep (Ovis aries) were validated through molecular data. The sequence analysis of ITS2 of our isolates showed high degree of similarity with F. gigantica and F. hepatica using BLAST function of NCBI. The phylogenetic analysis of our isolates showed a close relationship with previously described F. gigantica and F. hepatica isolates from different countries. The antigenic profile of somatic and E\/S antigens of F. gigantica were revealed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting using sera from sheep naturally infected with F. gigantica. By SDS-PAGE, 20 distinct bands were revealed from crude somatic fraction. Immunoblotting analysis of these proteins with positive sera exhibited 8 sero-reactive bands ranging from 14 to 97 kDa. Among these 38 and 44 kDa bands were quite specific with high diagnostic specificity and sensitivity. The E\/S fraction comprised 7 distinct bands, as revealed by SDS-PAGE analysis. Immunoblotting analysis of these proteins with positive sera exhibited 6 antigenic bands ranging from 23 - 54 kDa. Among these 27 and 33 kDa were found to be quite specific with high diagnostic specificity and sensitivity. The present study concludes that the protein bands of 38 and 44 kDa in somatic fraction and 27 and 33 kDa in E\/S fraction can be used for the immunodiagnostic purpose for this economically important parasite, which may also entice further studies regarding their vaccine potential.","124":null,"125":"","126":null,"127":"The side-necked turtle Hydromedusa tectifera commonly inhabits the tributary streams of the Rio de La Plata and occasionally is found in brackish waters within the estuary of the Rio de La Plata. Few studies have been conducted on its parasitic fauna, especially in Argentina. In the present work Amphiorchis sp. is registered for the first time in a freshwater turtle, expanding the knowledge about the specifi city of the genus that until now was considered inhabiting only marine turtles.","128":"This study presents the helminthological data on three mustelid species with overlapping ecological niches in Lithuania. In general, 14 helminth species or higher taxa were reported from all mustelids: Isthmiophora melis, Strigea strigis metacercariae, Pseudamphistomum truncatum, Alaria alata mesocercariae, Phyllodistomum folium, Opisthorchis felineus, Metametorchis skrjabini, Mesocestoides sp., Taenia martis, Aonchotheca putorii, Crenosoma schachmatovae, Eucoleus aerophilus, Molineus patens, and Nematoda g. sp. The largest number of helminths was detected in M. putorius (11) and N. vison (10) from wetlands; 7 helminths were detected in M. putorius from forests, and 8 in N. vison and 4 in L. lutra from water bodies. Habitat-related differences were found in the abundance and prevalence of E. aerophilus in M. putorius. M. putorius has higher indices of infection by I. melis, S. strigis metacercariae, and E. aerophilus compared to N. vison in wetlands. Differences in the abundance and prevalence of P. truncatum among N. vison and L. lutra in water bodies have been observed. Helminths detected in N. vison in the present study are native European parasites.","129":null,"130":"Over the past decade, increasing numbers of autochthonous cases of heartworm infection have been reported in the countries of Eastern Europe where previously only imported cases were described. In this report we have described the first clinical case of Dirofilaria immitis infection in an imported dog in Lithuania. In 2018, a 5-year-old male Spanish greyhound (Spanish galgo) was imported to Lithuania from southern Spain and referred to a small animal veterinary clinic in Vilnius for wellness screening. Circulating microfilariae and female antigens of D. immitis were detected using the Knott's test and SNAP 4Dx Plus Test (IDEXX Laboratories, Portland, USA). The diagnosis was confirmed using molecular analysis. Treatment according to the guidelines recommended by the American Heartworm Society was applied. This is the first confirmed report of canine heartworm infection in an imported dog in Lithuania. Heartworm-infected dogs transported to North-Eastern Europe from endemic areas could act as microfilarial reservoirs for the local mosquito population, which could increase the risk of spreading the disease.","131":"We are reporting the case of a nine-month-old Pakistani female with complaint of growth retardation who presented multiple intestinal parasitic infections. Probably because of contamination with fecal matter, the initial microscopic examination of the urinary sample revealed the presence of eggs of Enterobius vermicularis, cysts of Entamoeba coli, and an organism similar to mites. Stool samples were obtained after two weeks and microscopic investigation confirmed the presence of Enterobius vermicularis eggs, cysts of Entamoeba coli, and hookworm eggs. The patient was immediately subjected to mebendazole therapy associated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, to which she responded well. Follow-up stool re-examinations performed 15 and 30 days after the treatment tested negative for all parasitic ova and cysts. This study reflects the importance of considering multiple parasitic infestations in low socio-economic populations and highlights the need of improving poor hygienic conditions to prevent such infections, in particular in children.","132":null,"133":null,"134":"Parapharyngodon (Oxyurida) is a lizard gastrointestinal nematode parasite with a life cycle including lizards as main hosts. However, some species are known to parasitize anurans. In the present study, P. japonicus isolated from the large intestine of the Egyptian changeable lizard, Agama mutabilis was described and illustrated. Forty five specimens of these animals were collected from south Sinai desert, Egypt during the period from May to September 2017. After necropsy, the body was opened by a longitudinal incision from vent to throat, and the gastrointestinal tract was removed. The esophagus, stomach, small and large intestines were examined separately for helminthes. The recovered nematodes were examined by light and scanning electron microscopy. Thirty six specimens (80.0 %) were found to be naturally infected. The parasite was robust with prominent cuticular transverse annulations. Mouth surrounded by three bilobed lips, each with tiny labial papillae. Three pairs of caudal papillae were observed in male worms; 1 pair precloacal, 1 pair sublateral in cloacal opening line, 1 pair in proximal region of caudal appendage on its narrowed point. The posterior extremity beard dorsally directed caudal appendages. Females were with a conical posterior end terminated at a terminal spike. Ovaries reached esophageal isthmus but not wrapped around corpus. The parasite recorded was compared morphologically and morphometrically with the most similar species, it was found that it was most similar to P. japonicus with new host and locality records.","135":"New morphometric data, including details of the copulatory system and attachment structures, as well as inner organs are provided for Ancyrocephalus paradoxus Creplin, 1839. Scanning electron microscopy reveals new information of the body shape, position of the cephalic organs' openings, and structure of anchors, as well as differences in the in anchors' structure in adults and sub-adults of A. paradoxus. Energy dispersive analysis for X-ray was conducted for the first time for anchors in Monogenea and revealed structural differences between different parts of the anchors in two age groups.","136":null,"137":null,"138":null,"139":"Cyprinoid fish in Chiang Mai province has been reported the presence of a large number of metacercariae, particularly the metacercariae of Haplorchoides and those not identified to species. This study aims to investigate morphological and molecular characteristic of the minute intestinal fluke H. mehrai metacercariae in two cyprinoid fish species from Chom Thong district, Chiang Mai province, Thailand: the Tinfoil barb (Barbonymus schwanenfeldii) and the White eye barb (Cyclocheilichthys repasson). A total of 180 fish (90 from B. schwanenfeldii and 90 from C. repasson) were collected over three seasons: cool, hot and the rainy season (December 2015 to August 2016). Fish were examined for H. mehrai metacercariae infection, including areas such as muscle and the inner side of body scales, by using a light microscope. The prevalence of H. mehrai metacercariae in B. schwanenfeldii and C. repasson was 73.33 % and 100 % respectively. Haplorchoides metacercariae were identified as H. mehrai based on the morphological characteristics; the position of the acetabulum and the number and arrangement of the acetabular spines. Phylogenetic analysis based on Cytochrome c Oxidase subunit I (COI) gene showed that H. mehrai metacercariae from B. schwanenfeldii and C. repasson were the same species as the adult stage of H. mehrai from Hemibagrus nemurus and Mystus multiradiatus. Both morphological and molecular characteristic could indicate that Haplorchoides metacercariae originated from this study were H. mehrai. Furthermore, it is a new record of the minute intestinal fluke Haplorchoides mehrai in Chiang Mai Province.","140":"To study the effect of fertilization on soil nematode communities in a paddy-upland rotation system, an ongoing thirty-three years long-term fertilizer experiment is conducted which includes seven treatments; an unfertilized treatment (control), nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) fertilizer treatments (N, NP, NPK) and organic manure (M) combined with chemical fertilizer treatments (MN, MNP, and MNPK). The soil nematode community structure and crop yields were determined in 2012 and 2013. Overall total nematode abundance was increased by an incremental nutrient input both in the rice and wheat fields. Total number of nematode was 1.25 - 2.37 times greater in the rice field and was 1.08 - 2.97 times greater in wheat field in the fertilization treatments than in the unfertilized treatment. Soil free-living nematode abundances was significantly (P &lt; 0.001) increased in organic manure combined with chemical fertilizer treatments in rice field. Fungi-feeders and plant-feeding nematodes abundances were not significantly different among treatments in rice and wheat fields. Omnivorous and predatory nematodes were the most dominant groups in the present study. Omnivores, predators and Prodorylaimus abundances were significantly (P &lt; 0.05) higher in organic manure combined with NPK fertilizer treatments than in chemical fertilizer alone and unfertilized treatments both in rice and wheat fields. Stepwise regressions revealed that soil free-living nematodes were significant predictors of rice grain yields (R 2 = 0.56, P &lt; 0.001) and omnivorous and predatory nematodes were significant predictors of the wheat grain yield (R 2 = 0.89, P &lt; 0.001). Therefore, long-term application of organic manure combined with chemical fertilizer could increase nematode abundances and crop yields. Organic manure combined with chemical fertilizer application was recommended in agricultural ecosystem.","141":null,"142":"Climatic variation in low latitudes influences the dynamics and structure of parasite communities. Environmental changes caused by dry and rainy seasons alter prevalence and abundance of endoparasite communities. In addition to providing a list of the helminth species associated with the swamp frog Pseudopaludicola pocoto, this study aimed to investigate the effects of rainfall and temperature on parasitological descriptors of helminths associated with P. pocoto in an area of the semiarid zone. A total of 817 swamp frog specimens were collected between 2013 and 2017, with four sampling expeditions during the dry season and four during the rainy season. Environmental parameters of temperature and rainfall were compared to the parasitological descriptors of prevalence, abundance and mean infection intensity of the parasite community using a multivariate linear regression. A richness of eight parasite species was identified, including Nematoda (Rhabdias sp., Cosmocerca parva, Oxyascaris oxyascaris, Physaloptera sp., Brevimulticaecum sp., Spiroxys sp. and unidentified nematode) and Acanthocephala (cystacanths). Rainfall levels had a significant effect on the infection intensity of Rhabdias sp. being the presence of this species higher during the rainy season, whereas no influence of temperature was observed on the helminth community.","143":null,"144":"Snakes have diverse feeding and living habits, being exposed to a variety of endoparasite communities. However, more studies are still necessary to document these relationships. We examined 18 specimens of the cat-eyed snake Leptodeira annulata from a semi-arid region in Northeast Brazil. Eight taxa of parasites were found, with higher prevalence of cystacanths (Acanthocephala). Five nematode species (Hexametra boddaertii, Oswaldocruzia sp., Oxyascaris sp., Physaloptera sp. and Raillietnema spectans) and the pentastome Raillietiella furcocerca represent a new parasitism record for the host studied. Our results also showed that L. annulata could act as paratenic host for acanthocephalans. These results contribute to the knowledge of the helminth fauna of L. annulata.","145":"Helminth infections caused by Enterobius vermicularis have a cosmopolitan character and most often affect the paediatric pre-school and school age population. The presented study was conducted to determine the prevalence of E. vermicularis in the analyzed population of children in the Eastern Slovakia. The Graham's scotch tape method was used to investigate the presence of Enterobius vermicularis eggs in 390 specimens. The analyzed set consisted of 218 girls and 172 boys, divided by age into three groups - aged from 5 months to 2 years, aged from 3 to 6 years, and aged from 7 to 15 years. Investigation of perianal scotch tapes of children for the presence of E. vermicularis eggs revealed the prevalence of E. vermicularis was P = 3.59 %. Depending on the incidence of E. vermicularis infection, we detected no statistically significant difference (p&gt; 0.05). The prevalence of E. vermicularis in boys was P = 4.07 %, and in girls P = 3.21 %. The highest prevalence of E. vermicularis was recorded in the group of children aged from 3 to 6 years (P = 5.03 %). Most of the samples were positive at age 4 and 5. The lowest prevalence was in the group of children aged from 5 months to 2 years (P = 0.97 %), and the prevalence of E. vermicularis in the group of children aged from 7 to 15 was P = 3.91 %. The difference in the incidence of E. vermicularis infection among different age groups of children was not statistically significant (p&gt; 0.05). Enterobius vermicularis nematode infection and enterobiasis currently represents a major public health problem in Slovakia. At the present its occurrence is the most frequent in the paediatric population. Therefore it is important to introduce a targeted hygienic-epidemiological measure in children's collectives, what also should include proper and effective diagnostics and frequent recurrent therapy.","146":null,"147":"","148":"A survey of entomopathogenic nematodes was conducted in Croatia between 2016 and 2017. The steinernematids were recovered in two out of 100 soil samples from agricultural land characterized as loamy soils with acidic reaction. Molecular and morphological identification was used to distinguish the nematodes. The isolates were identified as two different strains conspecific with Steinernema feltiae. The variations in morphometrical characteristics of infective juveniles (IJs) and males were observed among Croatian strains and with the original description. The analysis of ITS region revealed the greatest similarity of Croatian strains with Slovenian B30 and English A2 strains, which together comprised a monophyletic group in evolutionary analysis. This is the first record of steinernematids, namely S. feltiae in Croatia.","149":"We have investigated freshwater cyprinid fish for its current infection status with plerocercoid of ligulid tapeworm in the Republic of Korea. A total of 6,049 (517 Euiam Lake and 4,071 Hoengseong Lake in Gangweon-do and 1,461 Chungju Lake in Chungcheongbuk-do) fish were examined by dissecting the peritonial cavity between March 2015 and December 2016. Totally 45 (0.74 %) fish in of 5 (26.3 %) species (8 Squalidus japonicus coreanus, 6 Squalidus gracilis majimae, 7 Opsariichthys uncirostris amurensis, 15 Zacco platypus and 9 Erythroculter erythropterus) were infected with plerocercoids of ligulid tapeworm. The infection density with plerocercoids in Erythroculter erythropterus was 12 - 26 per fish infected in Erythroculter erythropterus, and 1 - 2 in other 4 fish species. The plerocercoid was ivory-white and 26.2 - 57.8 cm long. The prevalence value in this survey was 0.9 % (45\/6,049). The genetic analysis in this study was conducted to identify plerocercoid species. Based on genetic analysis with data in GenBank, these plerocercoids were identified as the L. intestinalis.","150":"Fifty-one yellow-necked mice from the Obedska bara locality were analysed for the presence of intestinal nematode parasites in order to assert whether there was a host sex bias in infection. Previous research indicated that males would be the more infected sex, either due to the immunosuppressive effect of testosterone or their different allocation of resources towards immune defence. Quantitative infection parameters were compared between host sexes for all nematode species and nematodes in general. In addition, the influence of host sex, age, total body length, body mass and presence of other nematode species on parasite abundance was analysed. No statistically significant differences between males and females were noted for any of the studied quantitative parameters, leading to an absence of sex-biased parasitism in this study.","151":"Chrysocyon brachyurus, the largest South American canid, is a native species of the Brazilian cerrado. The present study is aimed to report the occurrence of the trematode, Athesmia foxi, in the liver of a new host, C. brachyurus, and to describe its morphology and pathology. One C. brachyurus individual was necropsied and examined for the presence of parasites. Worms were collected from the bile ducts and based on morphological and morphometrical characteristics, such as a relatively large, slender, aspinose, elongated shape with vitellarium present on the upper left side of the body were identified as A. foxi. On the host, hepatic lesions limited to the bile ducts and periportal regions, were characterized as chronic-active cholangitis, biliary hyperplasia, and fibrosis . This is the first report of A. foxi parasitizing C. brachyurus, demonstrating that this parasite has no host specificity and can be widely distributed. A. foxi lesions noted in C. brachyurus are similar to those noted in various other mammalian hosts.","152":"Snakehead fishes are widely consumed throughout South East Asia, China and India because of their good taste of meat and high nutrient values such as presence of prostaglandins, thromboxane and Omega-6 fatty acid. Parasitic infection constitutes significant economic loss in fish production. The aim of this work was to study the seasonal variation of helminths in snakeheads. In the presented study, a three-year survey has been performed. A total of 1013 individuals of Channa punctatus and 247 individuals of Channa striatus were examined. A total of 3783 helminths were collected, with an average of 3.02 helminths\/fish. 43.50 % individuals of C. punctatus and 59.10 % of C. striatus were found to be infected with acanthocephalans, trematodes, nematodes and cestodes per year. The prevalence and mean abundance of Pallisentis sp. was at its peak in summer. However the prevalence of trematodes, nematodes and cestodes was at peak during autumn. Mean abundance of nematodes was at peak in summer. Interestingly, the males were found more infected as compared to the females and the infection rate in males peaked in summer. In comparison to other weight groups, medium size hosts (21 - 40 g) were found more consistently infected. Thus the results indicate that there are seasonal variations in parasitic helminths infecting C. punctatus and C. striatus which also depend upon sex and weight. These variations may be attributed to various environmental and biological factors including parasite life cycle and immune level of host.","153":"Species diversity and composition of the parasite communities of barbel (Barbus barbus) at the infracommunity and component community levels were studied in the Lower Danube River, Bulgaria. During the two-year investigations, five parasite species have been found in 92 host fish: Bathybothrium rectangulum (Cestoda), Acanthocephalus anguillae and Pomphorhynchus laevis (Acanthocephala) and larval stages of Contracaecum sp. and Raphidascaris acus (Nematoda). Bathybothrium rectangulum and R. acus found in barbel represented new host records in Bulgaria. Parasite communities of barbel were species-poor and highly unbalanced. Pomphorhynchus laevis represented the dominant (core) species (prevalence 98.9 %), the second most frequent component parasite was Contracaecum sp. (P = 14.1 %) and remaining three species occurred only accidentally in barbels. Differences in species richness, prevalence, intensity of infection and ecological indices between individual seasons (spring, summer, autumn) were statistically signifi cant, but considerably affected by unequal species structure of communities with highly prevailing P. laevis. Low parasite species diversity of barbel and low values of most ecological indices, when compared with previous studies in this area (or other Bulgarian parts of the River Danube) might indicate that environmental conditions are impaired and thus, not favourable for the development of barbel parasites (primarily to their intermediate host survival) in the Lower Danube River of Bulgaria.","154":"As part of routine monitoring of foxes (Vulpes vulpes) and jackals (Canis aureus) on the territory of Vojvodina province (northern Serbia), an analysis of respiratory and cardiopulmonary parasitic nematodes was conducted. Both host species harbored Eucoleus aerophilus, E. boehmi and Crenosoma vulpis, whereas Angiostrongylus vasorum was found only in foxes. A high prevalence of infection (72.6 %) was noted for E. aerophilus in foxes. The remaining parasite species occurred less frequently in both host species. In all species where it could be quantified, a high degree of parasite aggregation within host individuals was noted. Single species infections were most common, whereas two and three species infections occurred less frequently in both host species. The distribution of abundance of E. aerophilus was affected by host sex, with abundances higher in male foxes. Sampling site and year influenced abundance variation in E. boehmi.","155":"This study was carried out to estimate the minimal number of eggs present in adult E. coelomaticum uterus. Samples were collected during post-mortem inspection and were submitted to light microscopy (bright field). The length, width, the total area of the parasite, uterus, and eggs were measured. The ImageJ software was used to calculate the area of the different parameters analyzed in this study. It was possible to observe that the uterus corresponds on average to 51.9 % of the total area of the parasite (ranging from 45 to 64 %). The number of eggs present in the uterus of parasites ranged from 5,946 to 15,813. To estimate the number of eggs three scenarios were considered, where the first taken into account the number of whole eggs observed in the image. In the second way to estimate the number of eggs, all the structures were considered (whole eggs and fractions that could be delimited) and compared with manual counting. Finally, in the last scenario, was considered an occupancy rate of 100 % of the uterine area per eggs, since there are overlapping eggs and these cannot be correctly delimited and accounted for. This study describes an important tool for quantifying eggs in a nondestructive manner and aggregate information until then is not explained by other works.","156":null,"157":"The serotoninergic and FMRFamidergic nervous system of the attachment organs of trematodes were examined using immunocytochemical techniques and confocal scanning laser microscopy. Adult trematodes from eight families as well as cercariae and metacercariae from ten families were studied. TRITC-conjugated phalloidin was used to stain the muscle fibres. The serotonin- and FMRFamide-immunoreactive (IR) nerve cells and fibres were revealed to be near the muscle fibres of the oral and ventral suckers of the trematodes and their larvae. The results indicate the important role of neurotransmitters, serotonin and neuropeptide FMRFamide in the regulation of muscle activity in the attachment organs of trematodes and can be considered in perspective for the development of new anthelmintic drugs, which can interrupt the function of the attachment organs of the parasites.","158":"Immunosuppression caused by parasitic infections represents the foremost way by which the parasites overcome or escape the host's immune response. Glucan is a well-established natural immunomodulator with the ability to significantly improve immune system, from innate immunity to both branches of specific immunity. Our review is focused on the possible role of glucan's action in antiparasite therapies and vaccine strategies. We concluded that the established action of glucan opens a new window in treatment and protection against parasitic infections.","159":null,"160":"Strongyloidiasis and hookworm infections are neglected helminth diseases widespread in tropical and subtropical areas. In humans, particularly in immunocompromised patients infections potentially may lead to the life-threatening clinical conditions involving the respiratory as well as gastrointestinal systems. The increased number of tourists travelling to tropical regions is associated with more frequent infection with parasites such as Strongyloides and hookworm. The infection takes place when filariform larvae penetrate the skin exposed to soil, than migrate through the lungs and finally reach the intestine. Travelers are often not aware of how they could get infected. Physicians may suspect strongyloidiasis and hookworm infections in tourists with diarrhea returning from endemic areas, especially when an elevated eosinophilia is observed. In the literature there are many reports about the presence of parasites in indigenous communities, but very few are available regarding travelers. This paper describes a dual infection with hookworm and Strongyloides stercoralis in a young female tourist returning from Southeast Asia. To our knowledge, this is the first report of hookworm and Strongyloides stercoralis infection in a tourist from Europe, acquired in an endemic area.","161":"Hoplias malabaricus and Hoplerythrinus unitaeniatus are Erythrinidae family widely distributed in the Amazon River system of great value to both commercial and subsistence fishing for riverine populations. As such, the objective of the present study was to investigate the endoparasite communities of H. malabaricus and H. unitaeniatus of a tributary of the Amazon River in the north of Brazil. The endoparasite communities of H. unitaeniatus and H. malabaricus were taxonomically similar (85%) and consisted of Clinostomum marginatum, Contracaecum sp., Guyanema seriei seriei, Procamallanus (Spirocamallanus) inopinatus, Pseudoproleptus sp. and Gorytocephalus spectabilis, although the dominant endoparasite was C. marginatum, which was the most prevalent and abundant. All the specimens of both H. malabaricus and H. unitaeniatus were parasitized, with a total of 1237 helminths collected in the former host and 1151 helminths collected in the latter. Hoplerythrinus unitaeniatus possessed greater parasite species richness. Both hosts had an aggregate dispersion of parasites, and the abundance of C. marginatum, Contracaecum sp. and G. spectabilis correlated positively with the weight and length of the hosts. The condition factor was not affected by parasitism, but the abundance of C. marginatum and Contracaecum sp. increased when the condition factor of the hosts decreased. This is the first report of G. seriei seriei for H. malabaricus and Pseudoproleptus sp. for H. unitaeniatus.","162":"A total of 39 digeneans species allocated to 28 genera in 12 families were recovered from 534 fishes belonging to 14 species in three families (Carangidae, Mullidae and Sparidae) collected in the Bay of Bizerte off the coast of Tunisia. We provide a host-parasite list of records from this locality, including 63 host-parasite combinations. The Opecoelidae Ozaki, 1925 is the most diverse group with 12 species. The species richness of individual digenean genera in the Bay of Bizerte ranges from 1 - 6 species. The mean number of 2.58 species per host indicates a relatively high digenean diversity in the Bay of Bizerte, which is related to its geographical location, its connection with the neighbouring Bizerte Lagoon and the nature of the bottoms of the littoral marine areas off the northern Tunisian coasts. This diversity is significantly higher than that reported off the southern coast of Tunisia and distinctly lower than that observed for teleost hosts in the Scandola Nature Reserve off Corsica. Generally, the levels of infection in teleosts fishes from the Bay of Bizerte are lower than those from the other two localities.","163":"We tested the role of sex, size, and mass of the lizards Phyllopezus pollicaris, Gymnodactylus geckoides, Hemidactylus agrius, Lygodactylus klugei, and Hemidactylus brasilianus on the rates of pentastomid infection in the Brazilian Caatinga. We collected 355 individuals of these five species, of which four (prevalence of infection: P. pollicaris 15.9 %, G. geckoides 1.4 %, H. agrius 28.57 %, and H. brasilianus 4.16 %) were infected by Raillietiella mottae. Parasite abundance was influenced by host body size and mass only in P. pollicaris. Host sex did not infl uence the abundance of parasites in any species. Hemidactylus agrius, G. geckoides, and H. brasilianus are three new host records for pentastomids.","164":null,"165":"Brown hare (Lepus europaeus) populations in Europe have declined through decades due to several, but not clear yet, factors. Parasite infections and diseases are some of the causes that directly affected the survival and breeding rates of animal population. A study on the endoparasites of 70 hares (37 hunted free-living hares, and 33 bred on farms hares) was performed between 2015 - 2017 in the province of Grosseto (central Italy), an area where the impact of parasites in the hare population has never been investigated. During necroscopic analysis of hunted hares the following helminthes were found: Trichostrongylus retortaeformis (87.1 %), Passalurus ambiguus (12.9 %) and Andrya spp. (6.4 %) in the intestinal tract, Protostrongylus cuniculorum (8.3 %) in lungs and Dicrocoelium dendriticum (16.7 %) in livers. The prevalences of the intestinal helminthes in bred hares were: 12.1 % for Passalurus ambiguus and 3 % for Trichostrongylus retortaeformis. The coprological analysis showed prevalences of 64.9 % for coccidia in the 37 hunted hares and 45.5 % in the 33 bred hares. The relationship between the intensities of parasitic infections and body weight was evaluated. The results of the present study in the Grosseto area indicate that free-living hares have few species of parasites and that the intensities of parasitic infection did not affect their general condition and health, suggesting that endoparasites played no detectable role in the dynamics of this hare population.","166":null,"167":"Following our previous findings on the in vitro anthelmintic effect of camel milk on Haemonchus contortus, the current study aimed at investigating its in vivo effect. Investigations were carried out using mice infected with Heligmosomoides polygyrus which is a parasite commonly used to test the efficacy of anthelmintics. Thirty six Swiss white mice of both sexes aged 5 - 6 weeks old, and weighing between 20 and 25 g were orally infected with 0.5 ml dose of 100, 1-week-old H. polygyrus infective larvae (L3). After the pre-patent period, infected animals were randomly divided into 6 groups of 6 animals each. The nematicidal efficacy of camel milk was monitored through faecal egg count reduction (FECR) and total worm count reduction (TWCR). Four doses (8.25; 16.5; 33.0; 66.0 ml\/kg body weight (bw)) for fresh camel milk and 22 mg\/kg bw for albendazole were studied using a bioassay. Albendazole and 4 % dimethylsulfoxide were included in the protocol as reference drug and placebo, respectively. For all tested doses except 8.25 ml\/kg bw, camel milk was effective in vivo against H. polygyrus reducing both faecal egg count and worm count (p &lt; 0.05). The dose 66 ml\/kg bw showed the highest nematicidal activity causing a 76.75 % FECR and a 69.62 % TWCR 7 day after initiating the treatment. These results support the possible use of camel milk in the control of gastro-intestinal helminthiasis.","168":null,"169":null,"170":"","171":"Roots of Solanum lycopersicum L. were collected in growing season of year 2015, on the island of Santiago in Cape Verde. Morphological, morphometric and molecular (18S rDNA and 28S rDNA) studies revealed the presence of Pratylenchus brachyurus and P. delattrei in root systems and root zones of tomato plants. To our knowledge, this is the first record of the occurrence of these nematode species in Cape Verde.","172":"The Asian fish tapeworm, Schyzocotyle acheilognathi (Yamaguti, 1934) (Cestoda: Bothriocephalidea), is an invasive parasite of freshwater fishes that have been reported from more than 200 freshwater fish worldwide. It was originally described from a small cyprinid, Acheilognathus rombeus, in Japan but then has spread, usually with carp, minnows or guppies, to all continents including isolated islands such as Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Cuba or Sri Lanka. In the present account, we report the first case of the infection of a native cichlid fish, Ptychochromis cf. inornatus (Perciformes: Cichlidae), endemic to Madagascar, with S. acheilognathi. The way of introduction of this parasite to the island, which is one of the world's biodiversity hotspots, is briefly discussed.","173":"A dog from Paris (France) was referred with a 2-week history of dry cough, intermittent acute onset of dyspnoea, and acute abdominal pain. A generalised bronchoalveolar infiltrate with a patchy distribution was observed at chest x-rays and computed tomography (CT) scans. Negative results were obtained through several faecal examinations for cardiorespiratory nematodes by using the Baermann technique and at two blood analysis with a commercially available test for the detection of A. vasorum antigen (the first one at the first visit and second one at the control visit, one month later). PCR methods for the identification of A. vasorum and C. vulpis were also accomplished. At the control visit, nematode L1s were found during direct microscopic examination of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). Thus, a different antigen-based assay for the detection of A. vasorum was performed with a positive result. Moreover, based on morphology, isolated larvae were identified as Filaroides hirthi. The dog was treated with fenbendazole (50 mg\/kg per os once daily) for two consecutive weeks. After five months, the dog was referred again for the intermittent acute onset of dyspnoea and was found to be still positive for F. hirthi larvae at BALF examination. A 15-day treatment regimen with fenbendazole in combination with three subcutaneous injections of ivermectin (0.4 mg\/kg, once every two weeks), was then performed. No larvae were detected at two BALF microscopical examinations performed one month apart. Results from this case report underline the importance of including F. hirthi infections in the differential diagnosis of dog bronchopneumonia.","174":"A new species, Emoleptalea nwanedi n. sp. is described from the intestine of Schilbe intermedius, the silver catfish or butter barbel, from the Nwanedi-Luphephe Dam in the Limpopo Province of South Africa. Fish were collected using gill nets where after they were euthanised and dissected. The parasites were sampled, fixed in 70 % EtOH and stained with Van Cleave's haematoxylin. This species represents an addition to the African cluster of Emoleptalea species previously described and differs from the known species due to its unique size, equal size of oral and ventral suckers, position of ovary and seminal receptacle, number of vitelline follicles and their size, as well as the unique ciliated receptors on the wall of the acetabulum. This is the first record of this parasite from the silver catfish and from southern Africa.","175":"Specimens of the snails Anisus centrifugops were infected with two types of cercariae relating to the genus Diplodiscus, differing from each other by body and organ sizes were found in a pond in the territory of Vladivostok (Primorsky region, Russia). Further study of their morphology and life cycles allowed us to establish that these flukes belong to Diplodiscus japonicus (Yamaguti, 1936) and D. mehrai Pande, 1937. Morphological and molecular data confirmed the validity of D. japonicus which had previously been synonymized with D. amphichrus Tubangui, 1933 and D. mehrai Pande, 1937.","176":"To reach ethically and scientifically valid mean abundance values in parasitological and epidemiological studies this paper considers analytic and simulation approaches for sample size determination. The sample size estimation was carried out by applying mathematical formula with predetermined precision level and parameter of the negative binomial distribution estimated from the empirical data. A simulation approach to optimum sample size determination aimed at the estimation of true value of the mean abundance and its confidence interval (CI) was based on the Bag of Little Bootstraps (BLB). The abundance of two species of monogenean parasites Ligophorus cephali and L. mediterraneus from Mugil cephalus across the Azov-Black Seas localities were subjected to the analysis. The dispersion pattern of both helminth species could be characterized as a highly aggregated distribution with the variance being substantially larger than the mean abundance. The holistic approach applied here offers a wide range of appropriate methods in searching for the optimum sample size and the understanding about the expected precision level of the mean. Given the superior performance of the BLB relative to formulae with its few assumptions, the bootstrap procedure is the preferred method. Two important assessments were performed in the present study: i) based on CIs width a reasonable precision level for the mean abundance in parasitological surveys of Ligophorus spp. could be chosen between 0.8 and 0.5 with 1.6 and 1x mean of the CIs width, and ii) the sample size equal 80 or more host individuals allows accurate and precise estimation of mean abundance. Meanwhile for the host sample size in range between 25 and 40 individuals, the median estimates showed minimal bias but the sampling distribution skewed to the low values; a sample size of 10 host individuals yielded to unreliable estimates.","177":null,"178":"Intestinal parasites may cause symptoms similar to acute appendicitis. Moreover, the diagnosis of parasitic infections is only done by post-operative histopathological examination of the appendices. Therefore, our aims are to assess the prevalence of intestinal parasitic infections among patients who were be appendectomized at Tanta Hospitals, Egypt and to investigate the possible association between these parasitic infections and appendicitis. To achieve these objectives, we performed a cross-sectional study including 65 patients chosen randomly who had undergone appendectomy over a period of one year from Oct 2015 to Oct 2016. Demographic data were retrieved. Complete blood picture was done. Moreover, appendiceal faecolith were examined macroscopically then by direct smear examination, formol-ether concentration technique, modified Ziehl-Nelseen stain and rapid immunochromatographic test. Histopathological examination of resected appendices was done. We found that parasitic infections were detected in 24.6 % of examined cases. Most of parasitic infections were prevalent in patients belonging to the school age group. Different parasitic infections were detected in the faecolith specimens. Moreover, Enterobious vermicularis adult female and Schistosoma mansoni granuloma were detected in histopathological sections. Also, a spectrum of pathological changes in the appendices was found ranging from lymphoid hyperplasia to acute inflammation with peritonitis. In conclusion, intestinal parasites may cause clinical picture similar to that of acute appendicitis. Therefore, careful attention to clinical history, stool examination and high eosinophilia may aid diagnosis and avoid unnecessary appendectomy. Moreover, the presence of different parasitic stages in the narrow lumen of the appendix may have a role in the development of appendicitis and this needs further studies.","179":"Schistosomiasis remains to be the most common fibrotic disease resulting from inflammation and deposition of scar tissue around trapped parasitic eggs in the liver. Though chemotherapy eradicates matured worms efficiently and prevents the accumulation of schistosome eggs, fewer effective drugs are directed to reverse the present hepatic fibrosis. Therefore, treatment targeting hepatic fibrosis associated with schistosomiasis remains a challenging proposition. The present study was designed to investigate the potential complementary schistosomicidal and hepatoprotective activities of the methanol extract of Capparis spinosa L. (C. spinosa) with or without praziquantel (PZQ) and compare results with silymarin (Milk thistle), a known hepatoprotective and antifibrotic agent, on induced liver fibrosis by experimental Schistosoma mansoni (S. mansoni) infection. Total polyphenols in the extract were determined using colorimetric assay. C. spinosa L. caused a partial decrease in worm burden; a statistically significant reduction in hepatic and intestinal tissue egg load, what was associated histopathologically with decreasing in both the number and diameter of granulomas, as well as restoring serum aminotransferases (AST &amp; ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and improving liver albumin synthesis. The best results were obtained in the group of mice treated with C. spinosa L. and PZQ together. Quantitative estimation of total polyphenols content using colorimetric assay showed that C. spinosa L. leaves contain higher concentration of polyphenolic compounds than fruits. It was concluded that C. spinosa L. has a promising hepatoprotective and antifibrotic properties and could be introduced as a safe and effective therapeutic tool with PZQ in the treatment of schistosomal liver fibrosis. Nevertheless further studies on the mechanism of action of C. spinosa L. in chronic liver diseases may shed light on developing therapeutic methods in clinical practice.","180":null,"181":"Development of modern medicine and better living conditions in the 20th century helped in reducing a number of cases of infectious diseases. During the same time, expansion of autoimmunological disorders was noticed. Among other are Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD) including ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease which are chronic and relapsing inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. Absence of effective treatment in standard therapies effects the search for alternative opportunities. As per hygienic hypothesis increasing number of cases of autoimmune diseases is as a result of reduced exposure to pathogens, especially parasites. Thus, one of the promising remedial acts against IBD and other allergic and autoimmune disorders is \"helminth therapy\". Cure with helminths seems to be the most effective therapy of IBD currently proposed. Helminth therapy focuses on advantageous results that have been obtained from the clinical trials, but its mechanisms are still unclear. Explanation of this phenomenon would help to develop new drugs against IBD based on helminth immunomodulatory molecules."},"articletitle":{"0":"Parasitic Helminths in Snakes from The Global Legal Trade.","1":"Plesiochorus Cymbiformis (Rudolphi, 1819) Looss, 1901 (Digenea: Gorgoderidae) in Olive Ridley Sea Turtles Lepidochelys Olivacea (Eschscholtz, 1829) (Testudines: Chelonidae) from The Brazilian Coast: New Geographic Occurrence and Associated Injuries.","2":"Helminth Fauna of Scomberomorus Sierra (Actinopterygii: Scombridae) in Southeastern Gulf of California, Mexico.","3":"Ultrastructural Aspects of The Intestinal Cells Surface of Angiostrongylus Cantonensis By Using of Transmission Electron Microscopy.","4":"Severe Pulmonary Fascioloidosis in a Wild Mouflon (Ovis Musimon) - a Case Report.","5":"Molecular and Morphological Characterization of The Root -lesion Nematode, Pratylenchus Neglectus, on Corn from Henan Province of China.","6":"New Records of Trematode and Acanthocephalan Species in Frogs in Erzurum Province, Turkey.","7":"New Findings of Trematodes of The Superfamily Echinostomatoidea Looss, 1899 in Birds from The Czech Republic.","8":"Parasitic Infection Patterns in Coleodactylus Meridionalis (Squamata: Sphaerodactylidae) from Atlantic Forest Fragments, Northeast of The Neotropical Region.","9":"Alterations in Lipids and Minerals in Relation To Larval Trematode Infections of Nerita Polita Marine Snails.","10":"Excretion of Dietary Zinc in Mammals (rats) Fed Overdoses of Zinc Lactate and Infected with Tapeworms.","11":"First Report of an Important Sheat Nematode, Hemicycliophora Poranga, Associated with Sugar Beet (Beta Vulgaris L.) in Vietnam.","12":"Gastrointestinal Helminths in Amietia sp. (Anura: Pyxicephalidae) from the Albertine Rift of Central Africa.","13":"Trichinella spp. Infection in European Polecats (Mustela Putorius Linnaeus, 1758) from Romania.","14":"Morphological and Molecular Identification of Nematodes in The Tayra Eira Barbara from Campeche, Mexico.","15":"Two New and Two Known Species of the Genus Paraoxydirus Jairajpuri and Ahmad, 1978 (Nematoda: Dorylaimida) from Western Ghats of India.","16":"Huffmanela sp. (Nematoda: Trichosomoididae: Huffmanelinae) Encountered in the Whitecheek Shark (Carcharhinus Dussumieri) in The Arabian Gulf.","17":"Two New Species of Philometrid Nematodes (Philometridae), Barracudia Notabilis n. sp. and Philometra Consimilis n. sp., from the Ovary of the Hound Needlefish Tylosurus Crocodilus (Belonidae) Off Florida, USA.","18":null,"19":"Comparative Comprehensive Analysis on Natural Infections of Hymenolepis Diminuta and Hymenolepis Nana in Commensal Rodents.","20":"Abundance and Annual Distribution of Freshwater Snails and Some Trematode Cercariae at Damietta Governorate, Egypt.","21":"A Survey of Control Strategies for Equine Small Strongyles in Lithuania.","22":"Some Digenetic Trematodes Found in a Loggerhead Sea Turtle (Caretta Caretta) from Brazil.","23":"Occurrence of Meloidogyne Arenaria in Black Pepper (Piper Nigrum L.) in the Extreme South of the State of Bahia, Brazil.","24":"Occurrence and Seasonal Changes in the Population of Root-knot Nematodes on Honeybush (Cyclopia Sp.).","25":"Description of Chordodes Anthophorus (Gordiida) for the first time in Iran with an Emphasis on Scanning Electron Microscopy Characters.","26":"Surface Ultrastructure of the Adult and Juvenile Stages of the Trematode Astiotrema Impletum (Looss, 1899) Looss 1900 (incertae Sedis) from the Nile puffer, Tetraodon Lineatus Linnaeus, 1758.","27":"Therapeutic Efficacy of Albendazole and Mefloquine Alone or in Combination Against Early and Late Stages of Trichinella Spiralis Infection in Mice.","28":"Multiple Anthelmintic Resistance at a Goat Farm in Slovakia.","29":"Demographics of Cystic Echinococcosis Patients Treated Surgically in Lahore, Pakistan: A Single Centre Study from 2007 - 2018.","30":"Educational Intervention for the Awareness Improvement and Control Programme Design on Echinococcosis in Izmir, Turkey.","31":"Physiological, Immunological and Genetic Factors in the Resistance and Susceptibility to Gastrointestinal Nematodes of Sheep in the Peripartum Period: A Review.","32":"Foodborne Parasitic Diseases in the Neotropics - A Review.","33":"A Contribution to the Nematode Fauna of Two Agamid Lizards from Afghanistan.","34":"Clinical Case of Life-threatening Co-infection Due to Dirofilaria Immitis and Aelurostrongylus Abstrusus in a Cat: First Report of Feline Heartworm Disease in Bulgaria.","35":"Alveolar Echinococcosis of the Liver with a Rare Infiltration of the Adrenal Gland.","36":"First Report of Xiphinema Diffusum from Pakistan.","37":"Description of Prionchulus Girchi Sp. Nov. (Nematoda: Mononchina) with Additional Data on Two Known Species of the Genus Prionchulus from Lorestan Province, Iran.","38":"Pathogenicity of Aphelenchoides Pseudogoodeyi on the Ornamental Plants Asplenium Nidus and Lilium Speciosum in Brazil.","39":"Parasitism with Acanthocephalus Ranae in Frogs (Pelophylax Ridibundus Pallas 1771), from North-east Romania.","40":"In-silico Analysis of Mt-CO1 Gene of Taenia Hydatigena Sheep Isolates.","41":"Ultramorphology and Molecular Studies of Contracaecum Larvae (Nematoda: Anisakidae) Collected in Five Cyprinid Fish Species from Sulaimani Province, Kurdistan Region-Iraq.","42":"Epigenetic Markers Associated with Schistosomiasis.","43":"Strongyloides Stercoralis Infection in Ethiopia: Systematic Review and Meta-analysis on Prevalence and Diagnostic Methods.","44":"Antiparasitic Effects of Selected Isoflavones on Flatworms.","45":"Three Species of Xiphinema Americanum-group Complex (Nematoda: Longidoridae), from Lorestan Province, Iran.","46":null,"47":"Experimental Infection with Baylisascaris Potosis in Chickens.","48":"Suppressiveness of Soil Amendments with Pelleted Plant Materials on the Root-knot Nematode Meloidogyne Incognita.","49":"Vertical Distribution of Soil Free-living Nematode in a Playa Habitat in the North-Western Negev Desert, Israel.","50":"Ultrastructure and Cytochemistry of the Mature Spermatozoon of Khawia Armeniaca (Cholodkovsky, 1915) (Caryophyllidea: Lytocestidae), a Parasite of Capoeta Capoeta Sevangi (De Filippi, 1865) (Teleostei, Cyprinidae).","51":"Metazoan Parasite Communities of Three Endemic Cichlid Fish Species from the Upper Grijalva River, Chiapas, Mexico.","52":"Efficacy of Miltefosine and Artemether on Infected Biomphalaria Alexandrina Snails with Schistosoma Mansoni: Immunological and Histological Studies.","53":"Clinical-parasitological Screening for Respiratory Capillariosis in Cats in Urban Environments.","54":"The Effects of Seasonality and Group Size on Fecal Egg Counts in Wild Przewalski's Horses (Equus Ferus Przewalskii, Poljakov, 1881) in The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone, Ukraine During 2014 - 2018.","55":"Coprological Survey of Protostrongylid Infections in Antelopes from Souss-Massa National Park (Morocco).","56":"The Neglected Cestode Infection: Epidemiology of Hymenolepis Nana Infection Among Children in Rural Yemen.","57":"Baylisascaris Potosis Larvae in Mice of Different Strains and Infectivity of Tissue Larvae.","58":"A Revised Checklist of Cooperia Nematodes (Trichostrogyloidea), Common Parasites of Wild and Domestic Ruminants.","59":"The Prevalence of Intestinal Parasitic Infections Among Kosovar and Serbian School-children in Kosovo.","60":"Description of the Egg and Larva of Raillietiella Mottae (Pentastomida: Raillietiellidae).","61":"Diversity of Parasites from Xenopus Laevis (Amphibia: Pipidae) and their Seasonal Rate of Infection in Selected Habitats in the Limpopo Province, South Africa.","62":"Helminth Parasites of Fish of the Kazakhstan Sector of the Caspian Sea and Associated Drainage Basin.","63":"Seroprevalance of Trichinella Spp. in Wild Boars (Sus Scrofa) from Bihor County, Western Romania.","64":"Probiotic Bacteria can Modulate Murine Macrophage's Superoxide Production in Trichinella Spiralis Infection.","65":"A Comparative Study of Different Immunoassays to Detect Specific Antibodies to Echinococcus Spp. in Human Sera.","66":"Dirofilaria Immitis in Bulgaria: The First Genetic Baseline Data and an Overview of the Current Status.","67":"Differentially Expressed Homologous Genes Reveal Interspecies Differences of Paragonimus Proliferus based on Transcriptome Analysis.","68":"Genetic Characterization of Hydatid Cysts of Different Intermediate Hosts.","69":"Crenosoma Striatum in Lungs of European Hedgehogs (Erinaceus Europeus) from Portugal.","70":"Preliminary Study on the Prevalence of Endoparasite Infections and Vector-borne Diseases in Outdoor Dogs in Bulgaria.","71":"A Controlled Study on Efficacy and Egg Reappearance Period of Ivermectin in Donkeys Naturally Infected with Small Strongyles.","72":"First Documented Cases of Pearsonema Plica (syn. Capillaria Plica) Infections in Dogs from Western Slovakia.","73":"The Fatal Case of an Autochthonous Heartworm Disease in a Dog from a Non-endemic Region of South-eastern Slovakia.","74":"Short-term Effects of Cadmium and Mercury on Soil Nematode Communities in a Pot Experiment.","75":"The Effect of Soil Type and Ecosystems on the Soil Nematode and Microbial Communities.","76":"The Mouse Bile Duct Tapeworm, Hymenolepis Microstoma in Free-living Small Mammals in Slovakia: Occurrence and Genetic Analysis.","77":null,"78":"Prevalence and Age Distribution of Enterobiasis in North-Eastern Bulgaria.","79":"A Pilot Comparative Study Between Serological and Genetic Investigations in Relationship to Clinical Outcomes on Patients with Cystic Echinococcosis.","80":"Molecular Characterization and Phylogenetic Analysis of Toxocara Species in Dogs, Cattle and Buffalo in Egypt.","81":"Evaluation of a Marketed Polyherbal Dewormer Against Intestinal Strongyles in Naturally Infected Donkeys.","82":"Phylogenetic Position of Pleurogenoides Species (Plagiorchiida: Pleurogenidae) from the Duodenum of Indian Skipper Frog, Euphlyctis Cyanophlyctis (Amphibia: Dicroglossidae) Inhabiting the Western Ghats, India.","83":"Comparative Study Among Lactophenol Blue, Lactophenol Solution and Proteinase-K Lytic Solution for Rostellar Hooks Morphometry of Echinococcus Granulosus Protoscolices.","84":"Drug Efficacy of Ivermectin Against Primary Nematodes Parasitizing Captive Przewalski's Horse (Equus Ferus Przewalskii) after Ten Years of Annually Treatment.","85":"First Report on Clinical Feline Heartworm (Dirofilaria Immitis) Infection in Romania.","86":"Giant Kidney Worm: Novel Report of Dioctophyma Renale in the Kidney of a Dog in Greece.","87":"On the First Occurrence of Xiphinema Santos in Brazil.","88":"Copro-prevalence and Risk Factor Assessment of Gastrointestinal Parasitism in Indian Domestic Pigs.","89":"Urinary Schistosomosis in Patients of Rural Medical Health Centers in Kwale County, Kenya.","90":"Prevalence of Intestinal Parasitic Infections among the Bulgarian Population Over a Three Year Period (2015 - 2017).","91":"The Molecular Profile of Paratrajectura Longcementglandatus Amin, Heckmann Et Ali, 2018 (Acanthocephala: Transvenidae) from Percid Fishes in the Marine Waters of Iran and Iraq.","92":"Occurrence of Anisakis and Hysterothylacium Nematodes in Atlantic Chub Mackerels from Libyan Coasts.","93":"Morphological Characterization of Dujardinascaris Spp. (Nematoda: Anisakidae) from the Striped Red Mullet Mullus Surmuletus in the Mediterranean Sea.","94":"First Report of Pyelosomum Cochlear Looss 1899 (Digenea: Pronocephalidae) in a Hawksbill Turtle - Eretmochelys Imbricata L. Found in Brazilian Coast.","95":"Stray Dogs of Sofia (Bulgaria) Could be an Important Reservoir of Heartworm (Dirofilaria Immitis).","96":"Concurrent Helminthosis Engendered Gastroenteritis in a Leopard Panthera Pardus.","97":"Rare Case of Angiostrongylus Vasorum Intraocular Infestation in an Asymptomatic Dog.","98":"Studies on Gastrointestinal Helminth of Three Lacertid Lizard Species, Podarcis Muralis, Podarcis Siculus and Ophisops Elegans (Sauria: Lacertidae) from Bursa, North-Western Turkey.","99":"Changes in Haematological Parameters in Wild Ruminants Experimentally Infected with Haemonchus Contortus.","100":"Cormorant Pellets as a Tool for the Knowledge of Parasite-intermediate Host Associations and Nematode Diversity in the Environment.","101":"Prevalence of Soil-transmitted Helminths in Primary School Playgrounds in Edo State, Southern Nigeria.","102":"The Influence of Chestnut Wood and Flubendazole on Morphology of Small Intestine and Lymphocytes of Peripheral Blood, Spleen and Jejunum in Broiler Chickens.","103":"Quantifying Spirorchiid Eggs in Splenic Histological Samples from Green Turtles.","104":"Helminths of The Eurasian Marsh Frog, Pelophylax Ridibundus (Pallas, 1771) (Anura: Ranidae), from the Shiraz Region, Southwestern Iran.","105":"Results on Search for the Broad Fish Tapeworm Dibothriocephalus Latus (Linnaeus, 1758), (syn. Diphyllobothrium Latum) (Cestoda: Diphyllobothriidea), in the Danube River.","106":"The First Description of Setaria Tundra (Issaitshikoff &amp; Rajewskaya, 1928) in Roe Deer from Croatia.","107":"Human Dirofilariasis in Bulgaria Between 2009 and 2018.","108":"A New Root-knot Nematode, Meloidogyne Moensi n. Sp. (Nematoda: Meloidogynidae), Parasitizing Robusta Coffee from Western Highlands, Vietnam.","109":"First Report of Segmented Filamentous Bacteria Associated with Rhigonema Sp. (Nematoda: Rhigonematidae) Dwelling in Hindgut of Riukiaria Sp. (Diplopoda: Xystodesmidae).","110":"First Record of Stephanostomum Sp. Looss, 1899 (Digenea: Acanthocolpidae) Metacercariae Parasitising the Pleasure Oyster Crassostrea Corteziensis (Hertlein) from the Mexican Pacific Coast.","111":"The Impact of Acids Approved for Use in Foods on the Vitality of Haemonchus Contortus and Strongyloides Papillosus (Nematoda) Larvae.","112":"Determination of Echinococcus Granulosus Genotypes in Livestock Slaughtered in Shush County, Southwest Iran Using PCR-RFLP.","113":"Differential Sensitivity of Myeloid and Lymphoid Cell Populations to Apoptosis in Peritoneal Cavity of Mice with Model Larval Mesocestoides Vogae Infection.","114":"The Genus Rhytidodoides Price, 1939 (Digenea: Rhytidodidae) in Brazil: New Geographic Occurrence and Report of Pathology in the Gallbladder.","115":"Infection Patterns of Helminths in Norops Brasiliensis (Squamata, Dactyloidae) from a Humid Forest, Northeastern Brazil and their Relation with Body Mass, Sex, Host Size, and Season.","116":"First Report on Mermithid Parasitism (Enoplea: Mermithidae) in a Southeast Asian Spider (Araneae: Araneidae).","117":"On Two Morphologically Different Cysticercoids of the Genus Eurycestus (Cestoda: Dilepididae) in Artemia Franciscana (Arthropoda: Artemiidae) in a Hypersaline Pond in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.","118":"Prevalence and Intensity of Cornudiscoides Agarwali (Monogenoidea) on the Gills of Day's Mystus (Mystus Bleekeri) in Relation to Some Ecological and Biological Factors from Arunachal Pradesh, India.","119":"Metazoan Parasites of Common Sole (Solea Solea) and Scaldfish (Arnoglossus Laterna) (Pleuronectiformes) from Sinop Coast of Black Sea.","120":"Heliconema Monopteri n. Sp. (Nematoda: Physalopteridae) from Monopterus Cuchia (Hamilton) (Osteichthyes: Synbranchidae) in India, with Notes on the Taxonomy of Heliconema Spp.","121":"Detection and Identification of Toxocara Canis in Infected Dogs Using PCR.","122":"Intestinal Parasites of Pets and Other House-kept Animals in Moscow.","123":"Molecular Characterization and Immunodiagnostic Potential of Various Antigenic Proteins of Fasciola Gigantica Species Isolated from Sheep of North West Himalayan Region.","124":null,"125":null,"126":"Cercarial Fauna of Freshwater Snails in Selected Agricultural Areas in Laguna, Philippines.","127":"Is Amphiorchis (Digenea: Spirorchiidae) an Exclusive Parasite of Sea Turtles?","128":"Helminths of Mustelids with Overlapping Ecological Niches: Eurasian Otter Lutra Lutra (Linnaeus, 1758), American Mink Neovison Vison Schreber, 1777, and European Polecat Mustela Putorius Linnaeus, 1758.","129":"First Report of Sarconema Eurycerca (Filarioidea) in Mute Swan (Cygnus Olor) in Poland - the Case Report.","130":"First Report of Heartworm (Dirofilaria Immitis) Infection in an Imported Dog in Lithuania.","131":"Multiple Parasitic Infestation in a Nine-month-old Patient: A Case Report.","132":"Two New Species of the Genus Coomansinema Ahmad and Jairajpuri, 1989 (Nematoda: Dorylaimida) with a Key to its Species.","133":"Effect of Coffee Silver Skin and Brewers' Spent Grain in the Control of Root-knot Nematodes.","134":"New Host and Locality Record of Parapharyngodon Japonicus (Nematoda: Oxyuroidea) from the Egyptian Changeable Lizard Agama Mutabilis (Agamidae): A Light and Scanning Electron Microscopy.","135":"Structure and Morphometrics of Ancyrocephalus Paradoxus (Monogenea: Ancyrocephalidae) from Sander Lucioperca (Percidae) in Czechia.","136":"Community of Monogenea in Populations of Cichla Monoculus from Two Tributaries of the Amazon River in the Northern Brazil.","137":"Update on Selected Topics in Acanthocephalan Parasites Research.","138":"Ithyoclinostomum Dimorphum Diesing, 1850 (Digenea, Clinostomidae) in Hoplias Malabaricus (Erythrinidae) with the First Report of Infection of the Eyes.","139":"Morphological and Molecular Characterization of Haplorchoides Mehrai Pande and Shukla 1976 (Digenea: Heterophyidae) from Chiang Mai Province.","140":"Soil Nematode Abundances were Increased by an Incremental Nutrient Input in a Paddy-upland Rotation System.","141":null,"142":"Helminth Community Dynamics in a Population of Pseudopaludicola Pocoto (Leptodactylidae: Leiuperinae) from Northeast-Brazilian.","143":"Helminths Infecting Dryadosaura Nordestina (Squamata: Gymnophthalmidae) from Atlantic Forest, Northeastern Brazil.","144":"Helminths Infecting the Cat-eyed Snake Leptodeira Annulata Linnaeus 1758 (Squamata: Dipsadidae) in a Semiarid Region of Brazil.","145":"The Incidence of Pinworm (Enterobius Vermicularis) in Pre-school and School Aged Children in the Eastern Slovakia.","146":"Biomolecular Changes and Cortical Neurodegenerative Lesions in Trichinella Spiralis Infected BALB\/c Mice: A Preliminary Study Elucidating a Potential Relationship Between Systemic Helminthic Infections and Idiopathic Parkinson's.","147":"M. L. Sood: Fish Nematodes from South Asia. Second Revised and Enlarged Edition.","148":"First Report of Entomopathogenic Nematode Steinernema Feltiae (Rhabditida: Steinernematidae) from Croatia.","149":"Infection Status with Plerocercoid of Ligulid Tapeworm in Cyprinid Fish from Three Lakes in Republic of Korea.","150":"Is there a Host Sex Bias in Intestinal Nematode Parasitism of the Yellow-necked Mouse (Apodemus Flavicollis) at Obedska Bara Pond, Serbia?","151":"First Report of Athesmia Foxi Goldberger and Crane, 1911 (Digenea, Dicrocoeliidae) from Chrysocyon Brachyurus (Illiger, 1815) (Carnivora, Canidae) and Pathological Findings.","152":"Seasonal Variation in Helminth Parasites of Snakeheads Channa Punctatus and Channa Striatus (Perciformes: Channidae) in Uttar Pradesh, India.","153":"New Data on Endohelminth Communities of Barbel Barbus Barbus from the Bulgarian Part of the River Danube.","154":"Respiratory and Cardiopulmonary Nematode Species of Foxes and Jackals in Serbia.","155":"Digital Image Analysis to Estimate the Minimum Number of Eurytrema Coelomaticum Eggs in the Uterus of Adult Specimens.","156":"Modulation of TLR2 and TLR4 in Macrophages Following Trichinella Spiralis Infection.","157":"Serotonin and Neuropeptide FMRFamide in the Attachment Organs of Trematodes.","158":null,"159":"Collyriclosis in Red-backed Shrikes Lanius Collurio from Israel and Czech Republic.","160":"Concurrent Infection of a Young Tourist by Hookworm and Strongyloides Stercoralis During Low Budget Travel in Southeast Asia.","161":"Comparison of The Endoparasite Fauna of Hoplias Malabaricus and Hoplerythrinus Unitaeniatus (Erythrinidae), Sympatric Hosts in the Eastern Amazon Region (Brazil).","162":"The Diversity of Teleost Fish Trematodes in the Bay of Bizerte, Tunisia (Western Mediterranean).","163":"Raillietiella Mottae (Pentastomida: Raillietiellidae) Parasitizing Four Species of Gekkota Lizards (Gekkonidae and Phyllodactylidae) in the Brazilian Caatinga.","164":"Helminth Fauna of Valentin's Lizard Darevskia Valentini (Boettger, 1892) (Squamata: Lacertidae) Collected from Central and Eastern Anatolia, Turkey.","165":"Endoparasites of the European Hare (Lepus Europaeus) (Pallas, 1778) in Central Italy.","166":"Prevalence, Abundance and Intensity of Eggs and Oocysts of Gastrointestinal Parasites in the Opossum Didelphis Virginiana Kerr, 1792 in Yucatan, Mexico.","167":"In Vivo Nematicidal Potential of Camel Milk on Heligmosomoides Polygyrus Gastro-intestinal Nematode of Rodents.","168":"The Anti-parasitic Effect of Probiotic Bacteria via Limiting the Fecundity of Trichinella Spiralis Female Adults.","169":"New Data on the Morphology and Phylogenetic Connections of Postlepidapedon Opisthobifurcatum (Trematoda, Lepocreadioidea: Lepidapedidae), a Parasite of Antarctic and Sub-Antarctic Fishes.","170":"Dieter Sturhan Dr. Rer. Nat. (1936 - 2017).","171":"First Report of the Lesion Nematodes: Pratylenchus Brachyurus and Pratylenchus Delattrei on Tomato (Solanum Lycopersicum L.) Plants in Cape Verde.","172":"The First Record of the Invasive Asian Fish Tapeworm (Schyzocotyle Acheilognathi) from An Endemic Cichlid Fish in Madagascar.","173":"Filaroidosis Infection in an Immunocompetent Adult Dog from France.","174":"Morphology of Emoleptalea Nwanedi n. Sp. from Schilbe Intermedius from Nwanedi-Luphephe Dam, Limpopo Province, South Africa.","175":"Diplodiscus Mehrai Pande, 1937 and D. Japonicus (): Morphology of Developmental Stages and Molecular Data.","176":"Optimum Sample Size to Estimate Mean Parasite Abundance in Fish Parasite Surveys.","177":"Helminth Fauna of Spiny Tailed Lizard, Darevskia Rudis (Bedriaga, 1886) (Sauria: Lacertidae) from Turkey.","178":"Prevalence of Parasitic Infections in Surgically Removed Appendices: Parasitological and Histopathological Studies.","179":"Complementary Effect of Capparis Spinosa L. and Silymarin With\/without Praziquantel on Mice Experimentally Infected with Schistosoma Mansoni.","180":null,"181":"Helminth Therapy: Advances in the use of Parasitic Worms Against Inflammatory Bowel Diseases and its Challenges."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":"","84":"","85":"","86":"","87":"","88":"","89":"","90":"","91":"","92":"","93":"","94":"","95":"","96":"","97":"","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":"","102":"","103":"","104":"","105":"","106":"","107":"","108":"","109":"","110":"","111":"","112":"","113":"","114":"","115":"","116":"","117":"","118":"","119":"","120":"","121":"","122":"","123":"","124":"","125":"","126":"","127":"","128":"","129":"","130":"","131":"","132":"","133":"","134":"","135":"","136":"","137":"","138":"","139":"","140":"","141":"","142":"","143":"","144":"","145":"","146":"","147":"","148":"","149":"","150":"","151":"","152":"","153":"","154":"","155":"","156":"","157":"","158":"","159":"","160":"","161":"","162":"","163":"","164":"","165":"","166":"","167":"","168":"","169":"","170":"","171":"","172":"","173":"","174":"","175":"","176":"","177":"","178":"","179":"","180":"","181":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Helminthologia","1":"Helminthologia","2":"Helminthologia","3":"Helminthologia","4":"Helminthologia","5":"Helminthologia","6":"Helminthologia","7":"Helminthologia","8":"Helminthologia","9":"Helminthologia","10":"Helminthologia","11":"Helminthologia","12":"Helminthologia","13":"Helminthologia","14":"Helminthologia","15":"Helminthologia","16":"Helminthologia","17":"Helminthologia","18":"Helminthologia","19":"Helminthologia","20":"Helminthologia","21":"Helminthologia","22":"Helminthologia","23":"Helminthologia","24":"Helminthologia","25":"Helminthologia","26":"Helminthologia","27":"Helminthologia","28":"Helminthologia","29":"Helminthologia","30":"Helminthologia","31":"Helminthologia","32":"Helminthologia","33":"Helminthologia","34":"Helminthologia","35":"Helminthologia","36":"Helminthologia","37":"Helminthologia","38":"Helminthologia","39":"Helminthologia","40":"Helminthologia","41":"Helminthologia","42":"Helminthologia","43":"Helminthologia","44":"Helminthologia","45":"Helminthologia","46":"Helminthologia","47":"Helminthologia","48":"Helminthologia","49":"Helminthologia","50":"Helminthologia","51":"Helminthologia","52":"Helminthologia","53":"Helminthologia","54":"Helminthologia","55":"Helminthologia","56":"Helminthologia","57":"Helminthologia","58":"Helminthologia","59":"Helminthologia","60":"Helminthologia","61":"Helminthologia","62":"Helminthologia","63":"Helminthologia","64":"Helminthologia","65":"Helminthologia","66":"Helminthologia","67":"Helminthologia","68":"Helminthologia","69":"Helminthologia","70":"Helminthologia","71":"Helminthologia","72":"Helminthologia","73":"Helminthologia","74":"Helminthologia","75":"Helminthologia","76":"Helminthologia","77":"Helminthologia","78":"Helminthologia","79":"Helminthologia","80":"Helminthologia","81":"Helminthologia","82":"Helminthologia","83":"Helminthologia","84":"Helminthologia","85":"Helminthologia","86":"Helminthologia","87":"Helminthologia","88":"Helminthologia","89":"Helminthologia","90":"Helminthologia","91":"Helminthologia","92":"Helminthologia","93":"Helminthologia","94":"Helminthologia","95":"Helminthologia","96":"Helminthologia","97":"Helminthologia","98":"Helminthologia","99":"Helminthologia","100":"Helminthologia","101":"Helminthologia","102":"Helminthologia","103":"Helminthologia","104":"Helminthologia","105":"Helminthologia","106":"Helminthologia","107":"Helminthologia","108":"Helminthologia","109":"Helminthologia","110":"Helminthologia","111":"Helminthologia","112":"Helminthologia","113":"Helminthologia","114":"Helminthologia","115":"Helminthologia","116":"Helminthologia","117":"Helminthologia","118":"Helminthologia","119":"Helminthologia","120":"Helminthologia","121":"Helminthologia","122":"Helminthologia","123":"Helminthologia","124":"Helminthologia","125":"Helminthologia","126":"Helminthologia","127":"Helminthologia","128":"Helminthologia","129":"Helminthologia","130":"Helminthologia","131":"Helminthologia","132":"Helminthologia","133":"Helminthologia","134":"Helminthologia","135":"Helminthologia","136":"Helminthologia","137":"Helminthologia","138":"Helminthologia","139":"Helminthologia","140":"Helminthologia","141":"Helminthologia","142":"Helminthologia","143":"Helminthologia","144":"Helminthologia","145":"Helminthologia","146":"Helminthologia","147":"Helminthologia","148":"Helminthologia","149":"Helminthologia","150":"Helminthologia","151":"Helminthologia","152":"Helminthologia","153":"Helminthologia","154":"Helminthologia","155":"Helminthologia","156":"Helminthologia","157":"Helminthologia","158":"Helminthologia","159":"Helminthologia","160":"Helminthologia","161":"Helminthologia","162":"Helminthologia","163":"Helminthologia","164":"Helminthologia","165":"Helminthologia","166":"Helminthologia","167":"Helminthologia","168":"Helminthologia","169":"Helminthologia","170":"Helminthologia","171":"Helminthologia","172":"Helminthologia","173":"Helminthologia","174":"Helminthologia","175":"Helminthologia","176":"Helminthologia","177":"Helminthologia","178":"Helminthologia","179":"Helminthologia","180":"Helminthologia","181":"Helminthologia"},"keyword":{"0":"Slovakiahelminthsparasitessnakes","1":"BrazilCystitisGorgoderidaeHelminthfaunaLepidochelys olivaceaLesionOlive Ridley sea turtlesPatologyPlesiochorus cymbiformisSea turtles","2":"FishGulf of CaliforniaPacific sierraTaxonomic compositionparasites","3":"Angiostrongylus cantonensisBrazilEosinophilic meningitisPernambucoRattus norvegicus","4":"aberrant hostfascioloidosismouflonpathologyunsuccessful migration","5":"Corn (Zea mays)IdentificationPhylogenyPratylenchus neglectusRoot-lesion nematodes","6":"AnuraErzurumHelminthsTurkey","7":"AnseriformesCharadriiformesEchinostomatoideaLariformesflukes","8":"BrazilDietGeckoHelminthsNeotropical Region","9":"Neritacercariaecholesterolmineralsphospholipidstriglycerides","10":"excretionfecalratsupplementtapewormzinc","11":"28SD2-D3Sheat nematodeWestern Highlandsmoleculartaxonomy","12":"AfricaDemocratic Republic of CongoHelminthologyNematoda","13":"European polecatsTrichinella spp.artificial digestionmultiplex PCRtrichinoscopy","14":"AngiostrongylidaeEira barbaraMolineidaeNeotropical regionPhysalopteridae","15":"CompendiumIndiaParaoxydirusWestern Ghatsdescriptionnew species","16":"Egg morphologyHuffmanelaprevalencesharkskin parasite","17":"Atlantic OceanDracunculoideaNorth Americamarine fishparasite","18":null,"19":"CestodeHymenolepishistopathologymolecularparasiterodents","20":"LanistesSnailsabundancecercariaephysico-chemicalseasonal","21":"anthelmintic resistanceparasite controlquestionnaire","22":"BrazilCaretta carettaloggerhead turtletrematodes","23":"nematological surveypipericultureroot-knot nematode","24":"Meloidogyne haplaMeloidogyne javanicapopulation densityroot-knot nematodesseasonal fluctuation","25":"ChordodesGordiidaIranNematomorphaScanning electron microscopy","26":"Astiotrema impletumSEM studyTetraodon spTrematodasensory papillaesurface topography","27":"AlbendazoleMefloquinecombined treatmentparasite stagestherapeutic efficacytrichinellosis","28":"Haemonchus contortusSmall ruminantsTeladorsagia sppanthelmintic resistancebenzimidazoleivermectin","29":"Cystic echinococcosisPakistanepidemiologyhuman","30":"Cystic echinococcosiscreating awarenesscyst hydatid diseaseprevention","31":"cellular immunityhumoral immunityinfectionnematode parasitesperipartum rise","32":"Foodbornediseaseshelminthsparasiticprotozoa","33":"AgamidaeCentral AsiaPalearcticendoparasitesfirst recordsrare collection","34":"Aelurostrongylus abstrususBulgariaDirofilaria immitisDirofilariosisFeline heartworm diseasecat","35":"Adrenal glandAlveolar echinococcosisDiagnosisEchinococcus multilocularis","36":"New recordPrunus persicaX. diffusumXiphinema americanum group","37":"Crataegus aroniaMononchidaPrionchulus fagiPrionchulus girchi sp. novQuercus libaninew species","38":null,"39":"Acanthocephalus ranaePelophylax ridibundushistopathological featuresprevalencesmall intestine","40":"CO1Cysticercus tenuicollisTaenia hydatigenain-silico analysissheep","41":"Contracaecum rudolphii BCyprinidaeGeneticsNematodeSystematics","42":"DNA methylationSchistosomiasisepigenetic markershistone modificationmiRNAs","43":"EthiopiaStrongyloides infectiondiagnostic methodsprevalence","44":"antiparasitic effectscestodescurcumingenisteinquercetinsilymarintrematodes","45":"X. oxycaudatumX. plesiopachtaicumdagger nematodeshawthornnew recordoak","46":"AmazonLeptodactylidaedietnematodes","47":"Baylisascaris potosisChickenLarva migransParatenic hosts","48":"Nematode managementdefatted seed mealssoil amendmentssugar beet pulp","49":"biodiversityloessial plain areaplaya areasoil nematode communityvertical distribution","50":"CaryophyllideaCestodaKhawia armeniacaspermatozoonultrastructure","51":"Chiapaheros grammodesVieja breidohriVieja hartwegifreshwater parasitesinfection parameters","52":"Biomphalaria alexandrinaartemetherhemocytesimmunological and histological studieslight and electron microscopemiltefosine","53":"BelgradeCapillaria aerophilacatcoprologyphysical examination","54":null,"55":"LPGMuellerius capillarisNeostrongylus linearisSouss-Massa National Parkprevalencethreatened antelopes","56":"Hymenolepis nanaYemenchildrenepidemiologyinfectious diseasesneglected tropical diseases","57":"Baylisascaris potosislarva migransmiceparatenic hosts","58":"Cooperia asamati nomen nudumgeographymorphologyroundwormsspecies spectrum","59":"Kosovochildrenepidemiologyhelminthsprotozoa","60":"life cycleneotropical regionparasitism","61":"HeteroxenousInfectionsMonoxenousSeasonTemperature","62":"Caspian SeaFishKazakhstanParasites","63":"ELISARomaniaWestern blotWild boarsartificial digestion","64":"Trichinella spiralismacrophagesmiceprobiotic strainssuperoxide anion","65":"ELISAEchinococcosisEchinococcus granulosusEchinococcus multilocularissensitivityspecificity","66":"CladeDirofilaria immitisDogGeneticGolden jackalRed fox","67":"Paragonimus proliferushomologous genesinterspecies differencestranscriptome","68":"Hydatid cystPCRmutationsecondary hydatidosissequencing","69":"Crenosoma striatumhedgehoglungwormnematode","70":"Angiostrongylus vasorumBulgariadogsgastrointestinal parasitesprevalence","71":"donkeysefficacyegg reappearance periodivermectinsmall strongyles","72":"Urinary capillariasisbladder wormsdogsurine bladder","73":"Dirofilaria immitisSlovakiadogfatal outcomeheartworm disease","74":"Morning gloryc-p groupheavy metalsnematodestrophic group","75":"indicatorsmicrobesmultivariate analysisnematodessoil propertiessoil trophic web","76":"Genetic analysesHymenolepis microstomaOccurrenceSlovakiaSmall mammals","77":"contaminationdogintestinal parasitespublic healthpublic spaces","78":"BulgariaE. vermicularisEuropeage distributionenterobiasisparasitic diseases","79":"Cystic echinococcosisELISAsequence analysisserologywestern blotting","80":"EgyptPCR-mitochondrial gene- ribosomal geneT. canisToxocara vitulorumbuffalocattledogsmolecular characterization","81":"Donkeysherbal dewormerintestinal strongylesphytotherapy","82":"28SIndiaP. cyanophlyctiP. euphlyctiPleurogenoidesfrogs","83":"Echinococcus granulosusmorphometric studyprotoscolicesrostellar hook","84":null,"85":"Dirofilaria immitis infectionRomaniacatrespiratory distressthoracic imaging","86":"Dioctophyma renaleGreecedogkidneynematode","87":"DNA sequenceLongidoridaeXiphinema americanum-groupdistributionolive","88":"Indiacoprologygastrointestinal parasitespigprevalencerisk factors","89":"Schistosoma haematobiumparasite transmissionurinary schistosomosis","90":"helminthsintestinal parasitic infectionsprevalenceprotozoa","91":"18S rDNAMiddle EastPerciformesSpiny headed transvenid wormscox1phylogeny","92":null,"93":"Mullus surmuletusNematodelight microscopymicroscopy (SEM)scanning electron","94":"BrazilDigeneaEretmochelys imbricataHawksbill TurtlePronocephalidaePyelosomum cochlearhelmintofauna","95":"Dirofilaria immitisdirofilariosisepidemiologyheartwormseroprevalencezoonosis","96":"LeopardSpirometra speciesToxocara canisparasitic diseaseszoonosis","97":"Angiostrongylus vasorumFrench Heartwormcanine lungwormocular angiostrongylosis","98":"CestodaDigeneaNematodaOphisops elegansPodarcis muralisPodarcis siculus","99":"Haemonchus contortusfallow deerhaematological parametersmouflonsroe deer","100":"AnisakidaeArgentinean seaPhalacrocorax atricepsPhalacrocorax gaimardiparasite-host associationpellets","101":"Edo StateSchoolchildrenseasonssoil-transmitted helminthssouthern Nigeria","102":"FarmatanFlubendazolchickenimmunityintestine","103":"Chelonia mydashelminthpathology","104":"AmphibiansNematodaParasitesPlatyhelminthes","105":"European perchdiphyllobothriosisfish-borne zoonosisplerocercoid","106":"CroatiaSetaria tundraroe deervector-borne disease","107":"Dirofilaria repensdirofilariasisdogssubcutaneous nodules","108":"Vietnamcoffeenew speciesroot-knot nematode","109":"16S rDNAFirmicutesLachnospiraceaemorphologyphylogenetic analysis","110":"Mexicobivalvedigeneanhelminthoystersparasitestrematode","111":"death rate of larvaeflavouring acidsnematodes of ungulates","112":"Echinococcus granulosusPCR-RFLPShush Countygenotypeslivestock","113":"Mesocestoides vogae larvaeapoptosismouseperitoneal cells","114":"BrazilChelonia mydasDigeneaRhytidodoides intestinalisRhytidodoides similisSouth-West Atlantic Oceangreen turtles","115":"CestodaLizardsNematodaParasite abundanceSouth AmericaTrematoda","116":"AgamomermisAranimermisCaerostris sumatranaThailandorb-web spiderparasitoid","117":"Artemia franciscanaBrine shrimpsEurycestusUnited Arab Emiratescysticercoids","118":"28S rRNACornudiscoides agarwaliMonogenoideaMystus bleekerihost sizeseason","119":"Black seaCommon soleMetazoan parasiteScaldfishSinop","120":"PhysalopteroideaSouth AsiaSynbranchiformesfreshwater fishnew speciesparasitic nematode","121":"ATPase subunit-6Toxocara canisdogfaecal examination","122":"MoscowRussiahelminthsintestinal parasitespetsprevalence of infectionprotozoa","123":null,"124":null,"125":"","126":"LagunaPhilippinesTrematodescercarial infectionfreshwater snails","127":"AmphiorchisArgentinaDiplostomidaFreshwater turtlesHydromedusa tectiferaPlatyhelminthesSea TurtlesSouth AmericaSpirorchiidaeTrematoda","128":"Lutra lutraMustela putoriusNeovison visonhelminths","129":"Cygninicase reporthearth wormsmyocardiumnematodewaterfowl","130":"Dirofilaria immitisDirofilariasisHeartwormLithuania","131":"Entamoeba coliEnterobius vermicularishookworminfestationspolyparasitism","132":"CoomansinemaJapandescriptionkey to speciesnew species","133":"Meloidogyne incognitaby-products valorizationphytochemicalssustainable nematode controltomato","134":"Agama mutabilisAgamidaeNematodaParapharyngodon japonicaslight and scanning electron microscopic study","135":"Ancyrocephalus paradoxusEDXASEMmorphometrics","136":null,"137":"","138":"BrazilTrematodacondition factoreye parasite","139":"Barbonymus schwanenfeldiiCOIChiang Mai provinceCyclocheilichthys repassonHaplorchoides mehraiMetacercariae","140":"crop yieldslong-term fertilizer experimentprodorylaimussoil nematode communitytrophic group","141":"DactylogyridaeDactylogyrusDogieliusRiver NileSudan","142":"AnuraCaatingaNeotropicalhelminthfaunaseasonalitysemiarid","143":"lizardnematodeparasitismtrematode","144":"Pentastomidanematodaneotropicalparasitesreptilessnakes","145":"Enterobius vermicularischildren populationenterobiasishelminthiasesprevalence","146":null,"147":"","148":"CroatiaSteinernema feltiaemorphological variationsstrainsurvey","149":"ChungjuEuiam and Hoengseong Lakeplerocercoid tapeworm","150":"Serbiahost behaviourimmunocompetencenematodessex-biased parasitism","151":"Athesmia foxiBrazilCanidaeChrysosyonDicrocoeliidaeDigeneahistopathology","152":"fishhelminthsnematodeparasitesprevalencesnakeheads","153":"Barbus barbusBulgariaDanube Riverhelminthsparasite community structureseasonality","154":"Serbiacardiopulmonary nematodesjackalred foxrespiratory nematodes","155":"DicrocoeliidaeImageJTrematoda","156":"HelminthImmune modulationToll-like receptorTrichinella spiralis","157":"FMRFamideTrematodesattachment organsnervous systemneurotransmittersserotonin","158":"LeishmaniaToxoplasmaglucanimmunityparasite","159":"CollyriclosisCzech RepublicIsraelRed-backed shrike","160":"Strongyloidesdiarrheahookwormssoil-transmitted helminthstourists","161":"AmazonErythrinidaeVila Nova Riverhelminth parasites","162":"Bay of BizerteDigeneaMediterraneanTunisiachecklistdiversity","163":"GeckosPulmonary parasiteSemi-aridSouth America","164":"CestodeDarevskia valentiniNematodeTurkey","165":"Brown harecoprological analysishost-parasitenecroscopical analysis","166":null,"167":"Camel milkFaecal egg count reductionHeligmosomoides polygyrusTotal worm count reduction","168":"EnterococcusLactobacillusTrichinella spiralisfemale fecundityprobiotic bacteria","169":"LepidapedidaePostlepidapedon opisthobifurcatumTrematoda","170":"","171":"18S rDNA28S rDNACape VerdePratylenchus brachyurusPratylenchus delattreinew geographic record","172":"CestodaCichlidaeInvasive parasiteMadagascarnew geographical record","173":"Filaroides hirthiFrancecanine verminous bronchopneumonia","174":"EmoleptaleaSchilbesouthern Africatrematode","175":"Diplodiscus japonicusDiplodiscus mehraiadult wormcercariaelife cyclemetacercariae","176":"Bag of Little BootstrapsLigophorus sppfishmean abundanceoptimum sample sizeprecision","177":"AcanthocephalaCestodaDarevskia rudisHelminthNematodaTurkey","178":"Enterobious vermicularisHymenolepis nanaappendiceal faecolithappendicitisimmunochromatographic testintestinal parasites","179":"Capparis spinosa L.Schistosoma mansonicolorimetric assayhepatoprotectivepraziquantelsilymarin","180":null,"181":"Heligmosomoides polygyrusInflammatory Bowel Diseaseshelminth therapyulcerative colitis"},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng","6":"eng","7":"eng","8":"eng","9":"eng","10":"eng","11":"eng","12":"eng","13":"eng","14":"eng","15":"eng","16":"eng","17":"eng","18":"eng","19":"eng","20":"eng","21":"eng","22":"eng","23":"eng","24":"eng","25":"eng","26":"eng","27":"eng","28":"eng","29":"eng","30":"eng","31":"eng","32":"eng","33":"eng","34":"eng","35":"eng","36":"eng","37":"eng","38":"eng","39":"eng","40":"eng","41":"eng","42":"eng","43":"eng","44":"eng","45":"eng","46":"eng","47":"eng","48":"eng","49":"eng","50":"eng","51":"eng","52":"eng","53":"eng","54":"eng","55":"eng","56":"eng","57":"eng","58":"eng","59":"eng","60":"eng","61":"eng","62":"eng","63":"eng","64":"eng","65":"eng","66":"eng","67":"eng","68":"eng","69":"eng","70":"eng","71":"eng","72":"eng","73":"eng","74":"eng","75":"eng","76":"eng","77":"eng","78":"eng","79":"eng","80":"eng","81":"eng","82":"eng","83":"eng","84":"eng","85":"eng","86":"eng","87":"eng","88":"eng","89":"eng","90":"eng","91":"eng","92":"eng","93":"eng","94":"eng","95":"eng","96":"eng","97":"eng","98":"eng","99":"eng","100":"eng","101":"eng","102":"eng","103":"eng","104":"eng","105":"eng","106":"eng","107":"eng","108":"eng","109":"eng","110":"eng","111":"eng","112":"eng","113":"eng","114":"eng","115":"eng","116":"eng","117":"eng","118":"eng","119":"eng","120":"eng","121":"eng","122":"eng","123":"eng","124":"eng","125":"eng","126":"eng","127":"eng","128":"eng","129":"eng","130":"eng","131":"eng","132":"eng","133":"eng","134":"eng","135":"eng","136":"eng","137":"eng","138":"eng","139":"eng","140":"eng","141":"eng","142":"eng","143":"eng","144":"eng","145":"eng","146":"eng","147":"eng","148":"eng","149":"eng","150":"eng","151":"eng","152":"eng","153":"eng","154":"eng","155":"eng","156":"eng","157":"eng","158":"eng","159":"eng","160":"eng","161":"eng","162":"eng","163":"eng","164":"eng","165":"eng","166":"eng","167":"eng","168":"eng","169":"eng","170":"eng","171":"eng","172":"eng","173":"eng","174":"eng","175":"eng","176":"eng","177":"eng","178":"eng","179":"eng","180":"eng","181":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":35095319,"1":35095318,"2":35095317,"3":35095316,"4":35095315,"5":35095314,"6":35095313,"7":35095312,"8":35095311,"9":35095310,"10":35095309,"11":34934396,"12":34934395,"13":34934394,"14":34934393,"15":34934392,"16":34934391,"17":34934390,"18":34934389,"19":34934388,"20":34934387,"21":34934386,"22":34248383,"23":34248382,"24":34248381,"25":34248380,"26":34248379,"27":34248378,"28":34248377,"29":34248376,"30":34248375,"31":34248374,"32":34248373,"33":33664625,"34":33664624,"35":33664623,"36":33664622,"37":33664621,"38":33664620,"39":33664619,"40":33664618,"41":33664617,"42":33664616,"43":33664615,"44":33664614,"45":33364909,"46":33364908,"47":33364907,"48":33364906,"49":33364905,"50":33364904,"51":33364903,"52":33364902,"53":33364901,"54":33364900,"55":33364899,"56":33364898,"57":32855617,"58":32855616,"59":32855615,"60":32855614,"61":32855613,"62":32855612,"63":32855611,"64":32855610,"65":32855609,"66":32855608,"67":32855607,"68":32855606,"69":32518495,"70":32518494,"71":32518493,"72":32518492,"73":32518491,"74":32518490,"75":32518489,"76":32518488,"77":32518487,"78":32518486,"79":32518485,"80":32518484,"81":32063744,"82":32063743,"83":32063742,"84":32063741,"85":32063740,"86":32063739,"87":32063738,"88":32063737,"89":32063736,"90":32063735,"91":32063734,"92":31708677,"93":31708676,"94":31708675,"95":31708674,"96":31708673,"97":31708672,"98":31708671,"99":31708670,"100":31708669,"101":31708668,"102":31708667,"103":31662700,"104":31662699,"105":31662698,"106":31662697,"107":31662696,"108":31662695,"109":31662694,"110":31662693,"111":31662692,"112":31662691,"113":31662690,"114":31662689,"115":31662688,"116":31662687,"117":31662686,"118":31662685,"119":31662684,"120":31662683,"121":31662682,"122":31662681,"123":31662680,"124":31662679,"125":31662678,"126":31662677,"127":31662676,"128":31662675,"129":31662674,"130":31662673,"131":31662672,"132":31662671,"133":31662670,"134":31662669,"135":31662668,"136":31662667,"137":31662666,"138":31662665,"139":31662664,"140":31662663,"141":31662662,"142":31662661,"143":31662660,"144":31662659,"145":31662658,"146":31662657,"147":31662656,"148":31662655,"149":31662654,"150":31662653,"151":31662652,"152":31662651,"153":31662650,"154":31662649,"155":31662648,"156":31662647,"157":31662646,"158":31662645,"159":31662644,"160":31662643,"161":31662642,"162":31662641,"163":31662640,"164":31662639,"165":31662638,"166":31662637,"167":31662636,"168":31662635,"169":31662634,"170":31662633,"171":31662632,"172":31662631,"173":31662630,"174":31662629,"175":31662628,"176":31662627,"177":31662626,"178":31662625,"179":31662624,"180":31662623,"181":31662622},"pubdate_year":{"0":2021,"1":2021,"2":2021,"3":2021,"4":2021,"5":2021,"6":2021,"7":2021,"8":2021,"9":2021,"10":2021,"11":2021,"12":2021,"13":2021,"14":2021,"15":2021,"16":2021,"17":2021,"18":2021,"19":2021,"20":2021,"21":2021,"22":2021,"23":2021,"24":2021,"25":2021,"26":2021,"27":2021,"28":2021,"29":2021,"30":2021,"31":2021,"32":2021,"33":2021,"34":2021,"35":2021,"36":2021,"37":2021,"38":2021,"39":2021,"40":2021,"41":2021,"42":2021,"43":2021,"44":2021,"45":2020,"46":2020,"47":2020,"48":2020,"49":2020,"50":2020,"51":2020,"52":2020,"53":2020,"54":2020,"55":2020,"56":2020,"57":2020,"58":2020,"59":2020,"60":2020,"61":2020,"62":2020,"63":2020,"64":2020,"65":2020,"66":2020,"67":2020,"68":2020,"69":2020,"70":2020,"71":2020,"72":2020,"73":2020,"74":2020,"75":2020,"76":2020,"77":2020,"78":2020,"79":2020,"80":2020,"81":2020,"82":2020,"83":2020,"84":2020,"85":2020,"86":2020,"87":2020,"88":2020,"89":2020,"90":2020,"91":2020,"92":2019,"93":2019,"94":2019,"95":2019,"96":2019,"97":2019,"98":2019,"99":2019,"100":2019,"101":2019,"102":2019,"103":2019,"104":2019,"105":2019,"106":2019,"107":2019,"108":2019,"109":2019,"110":2019,"111":2019,"112":2019,"113":2019,"114":2019,"115":2019,"116":2019,"117":2019,"118":2019,"119":2019,"120":2019,"121":2019,"122":2019,"123":2019,"124":2019,"125":2019,"126":2019,"127":2019,"128":2019,"129":2019,"130":2019,"131":2019,"132":2019,"133":2019,"134":2019,"135":2019,"136":2019,"137":2018,"138":2018,"139":2018,"140":2018,"141":2018,"142":2018,"143":2018,"144":2018,"145":2018,"146":2018,"147":2018,"148":2018,"149":2018,"150":2018,"151":2018,"152":2018,"153":2018,"154":2018,"155":2018,"156":2018,"157":2018,"158":2018,"159":2018,"160":2018,"161":2018,"162":2018,"163":2018,"164":2018,"165":2018,"166":2018,"167":2018,"168":2018,"169":2018,"170":2018,"171":2018,"172":2018,"173":2018,"174":2018,"175":2018,"176":2018,"177":2018,"178":2018,"179":2018,"180":2018,"181":2018}}