{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4},"abstracttext":{"0":"Reduced-rank regression is a dimensionality reduction method with many applications. The asymptotic theory for reduced rank estimators of parameter matrices in multivariate linear models has been studied extensively. In contrast, few theoretical results are available for reduced-rank multivariate generalized linear models. We develop M-estimation theory for concave criterion functions that are maximized over parameter spaces that are neither convex nor closed. These results are used to derive the consistency and asymptotic distribution of maximum likelihood estimators in reduced-rank multivariate generalized linear models, when the response and predictor vectors have a joint distribution. We illustrate our results in a real data classification problem with binary covariates.","1":"In addition to point estimate for the probability of response in a two-stage design (e.g., Simon's two-stage design for a Phase II clinical trial with binary endpoints), confidence limits should be Cute the confidence interval does not guarantee coverage probability in a two-stage setting. The existing exact approach to calculate one-sided limits is based on the overall number of responses to order the sample space. This approach could be conservative because many sample points have the same limits. We propose a new exact one-sided interval based on p-value for the sample space ordering. Exact intervals are computed by using binomial distributions directly, instead of a normal approximation. Both exact intervals preserve the nominal confidence level. The proposed exact interval based on the p-value generally performs better than the other exact interval with regard to expected length and simple average length of confidence intervals. Therefore, the new interval calculation based on p-value is recommended for use in practice.","2":"Copula modelling has in the past decade become a standard tool in many areas of applied statistics. However, a largely neglected aspect concerns the design of related experiments. Particularly the issue of whether the estimation of copula parameters can be enhanced by optimizing experimental conditions and how robust all the parameter estimates for the model are with respect to the type of copula employed. In this paper an equivalence theorem for (bivariate) copula models is provided that allows formulation of efficient design algorithms and quick checks of whether designs are optimal or at least efficient. Some examples illustrate that in practical situations considerable gains in design efficiency can be achieved. A natural comparison between different copula models with respect to design efficiency is provided as well.","3":"We extend the random permutation model to obtain the best linear unbiased estimator of a finite population mean accounting for auxiliary variables under simple random sampling without replacement (SRS) or stratified SRS. The proposed method provides a systematic design-based justification for well-known results involving common estimators derived under minimal assumptions that do not require specification of a functional relationship between the response and the auxiliary variables.","4":"Consider a set of order statistics that arise from sorting samples from two different populations, each with their own, possibly different distribution functions. The probability that these order statistics fall in disjoint, ordered intervals and that of the smallest statistics, a certain number come from the first populations is given in terms of the two distribution functions. The result is applied to computing the joint probability of the number of rejections and the number of false rejections for the Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate procedure."},"articletitle":{"0":"Asymptotic theory for maximum likelihood estimates in reduced-rank multivariate generalized linear models.","1":"Exact confidence limits for the probability of response in two-stage designs.","2":"Optimal designs for copula models.","3":null,"4":"Probabilities for separating sets of order statistics."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Statistics","1":"Statistics","2":"Statistics","3":"Statistics","4":"Statistics"},"keyword":{"0":"M-estimationexponential familynon-convexparameter spacesrank restriction","1":null,"2":"62K05Fisher informationclinical trialscopulasdesign measurestochastic dependence","3":"auxiliary variabledesign-based inferencefinite samplingpredictionrandom permutation modelsimultaneous permutation","4":""},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":30174379,"1":30906095,"2":27453616,"3":23645951,"4":21243084},"pubdate_year":{"0":2018,"1":2018,"2":2016,"3":2012,"4":2010}}