{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1},"abstracttext":{"0":"Improving soil health is necessary for increasing agricultural productivity and providing multiple ecosystem services. In the African Highlands (AH) where conversion of forests to cultivation on steep slopes is leading to soil degradation, sustainable land management practices are vital. Farmers' awareness of soil health indicators (SHI) influences their choice of land management and needs to be better understood to improve communication between land managers and other stakeholders in agricultural systems. This study aims to collate and evaluate case study analyses of farmers' awareness and use of soil health indicators in African Highlands. This is achieved by using a multi-method approach that combines a meta-summary analysis of AH's SHI data from 24 published studies together with farmer interviews in the East Usambara Mountain region of Tanzania (EUM). Our findings show that farmers across the AH use observable attributes of the landscape as SHI. Out of 16 SHI reported by the farmers, vegetation performance\/crop yield and soil colour were most frequently used across the AH. These were also the only two SHI that influenced farmers' land management decisions in the EUM, where organic manure addition was the only land management option resulting from observed changes in SHI. Farmers' use of only one or two SHI in land management decisions, as is the case in the EUM, seems to limit their choice and\/or adoption of sustainable land management options, highlighting the need to increase awareness and use of more relevant SHI. This could be achieved by sharing SHI knowledge through learning alliances and agricultural extension service. Integration of farmers' observation techniques and conventional soil testing in a hybrid approach is recommended for a more targeted assessment of soil health to inform appropriate and sustainable land management practices.","1":null},"articletitle":{"0":"Farmers' indicators of soil health in the African highlands.","1":"Fire severity and soil erosion susceptibility mapping using multi-temporal Earth Observation data: The case of Mati fatal wildfire in Eastern Attica, Greece."},"doi":{"0":"","1":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Catena","1":"Catena"},"keyword":{"0":"East Usambara MountainsLocal soil knowledgeMountain soilsSoil healthSustainable land management","1":"Mati AttikaMediterraneanRUSLERemote sensingWildlife-urban interface"},"pmid":{"0":34345115,"1":32255894},"pubdate_year":{"0":2021,"1":2020}}