{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54,"55":55,"56":56,"57":57,"58":58,"59":59,"60":60,"61":61,"62":62,"63":63,"64":64,"65":65,"66":66,"67":67,"68":68,"69":69,"70":70,"71":71,"72":72,"73":73},"abstracttext":{"0":"Medicinal plants of the genus Walsura (family Meliaceae) are native to tropical zones of a number of Asian countries, and have been used in systems of folk medicine. Several original research articles on Walsura species are available, but an overview highlighting the phytochemical and biological aspects of the compounds isolated to date is so far absent. Since the 1970s, phytochemical investigations on the genus Walsura have been undertaken, and more than 220 compounds from ten species have been identified. Natural products from Walsura species that have received the most attention are limonoids (114 compounds) and triterpenoids (72 compounds). Walsura limonoids have been characterized structurally as having diverse skeletons and more than 100 such compounds are new to the literature, while dammaranes, tirucallanes, and apotirucallanes are the main triterpenoid types from this genus. Other Walsura constituents comprise sesquiterpenoids, flavonoids, sterols, lignans, xanthones, and anthraquinones. Walsura species constituents have also been studied in natural product drug discovery screening programs. Many in vitro biological and some in vivo pharmacological investigations have been carried out on Walsura species isolated compounds. Walsura components display properties such as cancer cell cytotoxicity, antimicrobial, antidiabetes, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antifeedant, antifertility, ichthyotoxic, and neuroprotection activities.","1":"The North American newt genera Taricha and Notophthalmus (order Caudata) are well known for the combination of potent toxicity, aposematic coloration, and striking defense postures that protects these animals from predation. This suite of traits is centered around the neurotoxin tetrodotoxin, which causes paralysis and death in metazoans by disrupting the initiation and propagation of electrical signals in the nerves and muscles. Tetrodotoxin defends newts from predation across multiple life history stages and its role in generating arms-race coevolution between Taricha newts and garter snake (genus Thamnophis) predators is well studied. However, understanding the broader picture of chemical defenses in Taricha and Notophthalmus requires an expanded comprehension of the defensive chemical ecology of tetrodotoxin that includes possible coevolutionary interactions with insect egg predators, protection against parasites, as well as mimicry complexes associated with tetrodotoxin and aposematic coloration in both genera. Herein the authors review what is known about the structure, function, and pharmacology of tetrodotoxin to explore its evolution and chemical ecology in the North American newt. Focus is made specifically on the origin and possible biosynthesis of tetrodotoxin in these taxa as well as providing an expanded picture of the web of interactions that contribute to landscape level patterns of toxicity and defense in Taricha and Notophthalmus.","2":"The phytochemistry of the fragrant infected heartwood of Aquilaria and Gyrinops species, agarwood (oud), is critically reviewed, highlighting the use of this remarkable natural raw material in perfumery. The chemistry of the two main groups of constituents of agarwood (sesquiterpenoids and chromones) is discussed, focusing particularly on the former structural type. The identities of the main key odorants of agarwood essential oil and of the smoke produced by heating the wood of agarwood are also discussed.","3":null,"4":"Natural products have made a crucial and unique contribution to human health, and this is especially true in the case of malaria, where the natural products quinine and artemisinin and their derivatives and analogues, have saved millions of lives. The need for new drugs to treat malaria is still urgent, since the most dangerous malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, has become resistant to quinine and most of its derivatives and is becoming resistant to artemisinin and its derivatives. This volume begins with a short history of malaria and follows this with a summary of its biology. It then traces the fascinating history of the discovery of quinine for malaria treatment and then describes quinine's biosynthesis, its mechanism of action, and its clinical use, concluding with a discussion of synthetic antimalarial agents based on quinine's structure. The volume then covers the discovery of artemisinin and its development as the source of the most effective current antimalarial drug, including summaries of its synthesis and biosynthesis, its mechanism of action, and its clinical use and resistance. A short discussion of other clinically used antimalarial natural products leads to a detailed treatment of other natural products with significant antiplasmodial activity, classified by compound type. Although the search for new antimalarial natural products from Nature's combinatorial library is challenging, it is very likely to yield new antimalarial drugs. The chapter thus ends by identifying over ten natural products with development potential as clinical antimalarial agents.","5":"The combination of traditional knowledge of medicinal plants with scientific rationale has yielded positive results in recent years. Bioactive compounds isolated from herbaceous plants have long been used as drugs that benefit human health, as well as providing useful compounds for drug development lead compound optimization. This chapter aims to provide a systematic overview of the structural types of Desmos secondary metabolites, along with their biological potential. Various chromatographic and spectroscopic methods have been utilized for isolating, purifying, and elucidating the structures of compounds from Desmos species. From 1982 to the present time, more than 200 metabolites have been isolated from members of this genus. Desmos spp. constituents include terpenoids, phytosterols, polyoxygenated cyclohexanes and cyclohexenes, oxepinones, fatty acids, with flavonoids, alkaloids, and miscellaneous phenols being the predominant compounds. The essential oils of Desmos species have also been investigated. Both crude plant extracts and isolated compounds from this genus have been evaluated for their biological activities. Desmos constituents have been found to exhibit cytotoxic, antimicrobial, antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, and aromatase and NFAT transcriptive inhibition effects.","6":"Herbaceous annual plants of the genus Xanthium are widely distributed throughout the world and have been employed medicinally for millennia. This contribution aims to provide a systematic overview of the diverse structural classes of Xanthium secondary metabolites, as well as their pharmacological potential. On searching in various reference databases with a combination of three keywords \"Xanthium\", \"Phytochemistry\", and \"Pharmacology\", relevant publications have been obtained subsequently. From the 1950s to the present, phytochemical investigations have focused mainly on 15 Xanthium species, from which 300 compounds have been isolated and structurally resolved, primarily using NMR spectroscopic methodology. Xanthium constituents represent several secondary metabolite types, including simple phenols, sulfur and nitrogen-containing compounds, lignans, sterols, flavonoids, quinones, coumarins, and fatty acids, with terpenoids being the most common of these. Among the 174 terpenoids characterized, xanthanolide sesquiterpenoids are abundant, and most of the compounds isolated containing sulfur were found to be new in Nature. The ethnomedical uses of Xanthium crude extracts are supported by the in vitro and in vivo effects of their constituents, such as cytotoxicity, antioxidant, antibacterial, antifungal, antidiabetes, and hepatoprotective activities. Toxicological results suggest that Xanthium plant extracts are generally safe for use. In the future, additional phytochemical investigations, along with further assessments of the biological profiles and mechanism of action studies of the components of Xanthium species, are to be expected.","7":null,"8":null,"9":"The term \"marine biodiscovery\" has been recently been adopted to describe the area of marine natural products dedicated to the search of new drugs. Several maritime countries such as Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, and Japan as well as some European countries have invested significantly in this area of research over the last 50 years. In the late 2000s, research in this field has received significant interest and support in Ireland for exploring new marine bioresources from the nutrient-rich waters of the Northeastern Atlantic Ocean. Despite undeniable success exemplified by the marketing of new drugs, especially in oncology, the integration of new technical but also environmental aspects should be considered. Indeed, global change, particularly in our oceans, such as climate change, biodiversity loss, and the emergence of microbial pathogens, not only affects the environment but ultimately contributes to social inequalities. In this contribution, new avenues and best practices are proposed, such as the development of biorepositories and shared data for the future of marine biodiscovery research. The extension of this type of scientific work will allow humanity to finally make the optimum use of marine bioresources.","10":"","11":"Cryptolepine, the principal constituent of the West African climbing shrub Cryptolepis sanguinolenta, continues to be of interest as a lead to new therapeutic agents, especially for the treatment of protozoal infections and cancer. This contribution reviews the research published in the last decade, highlighting new synthesis routes to cryptolepine and to analogs of this alkaloid, as well as their pharmacology. Studies relating to the use of C. sanguinolenta as an herbal medicine for the treatment of malaria are discussed, as well as the development of analogs of cryptolepine as leads to new agents for the treatment of malaria, trypanosomiasis, and cancer with an emphasis on the pharmacological mechanisms involved. Other potential therapeutic applications include antimicrobial, antidiabetic, and anti-inflammatory activities; the pharmacokinetics and toxicity of cryptolepine are also reviewed.","12":null,"13":"Thapsigargin, the first representative of the hexaoxygenated guaianolides, was isolated 40 years ago in order to understand the skin-irritant principles of the resin of the umbelliferous plant Thapsia garganica. The pronounced cytotoxicity of thapsigargin is caused by highly selective inhibition of the intracellular sarco-endoplasmic Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) situated on the membrane of the endo- or sarcoplasmic reticulum. Thapsigargin is selective to the SERCA pump and to a minor extent the secretory pathway Ca2+\/Mn2+ ATPase (SPCA) pump. Thapsigargin has become a tool for investigation of the importance of SERCA in intracellular calcium homeostasis. In addition, complex formation of thapsigargin with SERCA has enabled crystallization and structure determination of calcium-free states by X-ray crystallography. These results led to descriptions of the mechanism of action and kinetic properties of SERCA and other ATPases. Inhibition of SERCA depletes Ca2+ from the sarco- and endoplasmic reticulum provoking the unfolded protein response, and thereby has enabled new studies on the mechanism of cell death. Development of protocols for selective transformation of thapsigargin disclosed the chemistry and facilitated total synthesis of the molecule. Conversion of trilobolide into thapsigargin offered an economically feasible sustainable source of thapsigargin, which enables a future drug production. Principles for prodrug development were used by conjugating a payload derived from thapsigargin with a hydrophilic peptide selectively cleaved by proteases in the tumor. Mipsagargin was developed in order to obtain a drug for treatment of cancer diseases characterized by the presence of prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) in the neovascular tissue of the tumors. Even though mipsagargin showed interesting clinical effects the results did not encourage funding and consequently the attempt to register the drug has been abandoned. In spite of this disappointing fact, the research performed to develop the drug has resulted in important scientific discoveries concerning the chemistry, biosynthesis and biochemistry of sesquiterpene lactones, the mechanism of action of ATPases including SERCA, mechanisms for cell death caused by the unfolded protein response, and the use of prodrugs for cancer-targeting cytotoxins. The presence of toxins in only some species belonging to Thapsia also led to a major revision of the taxonomy of the genus.","14":"Ten-membered lactones are commonly observed structures of natural products. They are mostly fungal metabolites, which often act as plant pathogens, but recently ten-membered lactones were identified as pheromones of frogs and termites. Although modern spectroscopic methods are nowadays routinely used to elucidate the structure of natural products, structural assignments of ten-membered lactones often remain incomplete or are surprisingly often erroneous. Most errors concern the absolute configuration. The examples discussed in this chapter demonstrate that enantioselective total synthesis is not only an efficient tool for corroborating or revising a proposed structure, but that the synthesis of different stereoisomers as references for gas chromatographic investigations can be a vital part of the structure elucidation process if only minute amounts of material are available. As a method of outstanding importance for the synthesis of ten-membered lactones olefin metathesis has emerged. Most of the examples discussed herein use one or more olefin metathesis reactions as key steps.","15":"Natural products are a class of chemical compounds that are biosynthesized by living organisms, including humans. Endogenous natural products are produced by human cells as well as by the human microbiome. This contribution describes the current understanding and recent progress made on endogenous natural products that are produced by human cells, including amines, steroids, and fatty acid-derived natural products. The co-metabolism and natural product produced by the human microbiome will also be described, including the involvement of tryptophan, bile acids, choline, and cysteine. New strategies and technologies have been introduced that can be applied to identify and characterize those natural products produced by the human microbiome in terms of their composition and physiological function.","16":"The most significant new techniques that have been used in the twenty-first century for the structure elucidation of sesquiterpenes and some derivatives are reviewed in this chapter. A distinctive feature of these methodologies is the combination of accurate experimental measurements with theoretical data obtained by molecular modeling calculations that allow to visualize, understand, and quantify many structural characteristics. This has been the case for NMR spectroscopy, which has expanded its potential for solving complex structural problems by means of comparison with quantum mechanical molecular models. Ab initio and density functional theory calculations of chemical shifts, coupling constants, and residual chemical shift anisotropies have played important roles in the solution of many structures of sesquiterpenes. The assignments of their absolute configurations by evaluation of calculated and experimental chiroptical properties as electronic and vibrational circular dichroism are also reviewed. This chapter also includes the use of X-ray diffraction analysis with emphasis on calculations of the Flack and Hooft parameters, which are applicable to all molecules that crystallize in non-centrosymmetric space groups. The accurate molecular models of sesquiterpenes, validated by concordance with their experimental properties, are nowadays essential for the interpretation of the effects of these natural products on biological systems.","17":null,"18":"Cytochalasans are a group of fungal-derived natural products characterized by a perhydro-isoindolone core fused with a macrocyclic ring, and they exhibit a high structural diversity and a broad spectrum of bioactivities. Cytochalasans have attracted significant attention from the chemical and pharmacological communities and have been reviewed previously from various perspectives in recent years. However, continued interest in the cytochalasans and the number of laboratory investigations on these compounds are both growing rapidly. This contribution provides a general overview of the isolation, structural determination, biological activities, biosynthesis, and total synthesis of cytochalasans. In total, 477 cytochalasans are covered, including \"merocytochalasans\" that arise by the dimerization or polymerization of one or more cytochalasan molecules with one or more other natural product units. This contribution provides a comprehensive treatment of the cytochalasans, and it is hoped that it may stimulate further work on these interesting natural products.","19":null,"20":"Hypericum L. is a genus of the family Hypericaceae within the dicotyledones. The constituents of Hypericum species are valued for their important biological properties. Their use is in the treatment of depression and as antibacterial agents has been well documented in the primary literature and in ethnobotanical reports. The present contribution gives a comprehensive summary of the chemical constituents of members of the genus Hypericum and their biological effects. A detailed account of the chemical constituents, including phloroglucinol derivatives, xanthones, dianthrones, and flavonoids, is included. These compounds show a diverse range of biological activities that include antimicrobial, cytotoxic, antidepressant-like, and antinociceptive effects.","21":"In Nature, the oldest method of communication between living systems is the chemical language. Plants, due to their lack of mobility, have developed the most sophisticated way of chemical communication. Despite that many examples involve this chemical communication process-allelopathy, there is still a lack of information about specific allelochemicals released into the environment, their purpose, as well as in-depth studies on the chemistry underground. These findings are critical to gain a better understanding of the role of these compounds and open up a wide range of possibilities and applications, especially in agriculture and phytomedicine. The most relevant aspects regarding the chemical language of plants, namely kind of allelochemicals, have been investigated, as well as their releasing mechanisms and their purpose will be described in this chapter.","22":"Marine-derived fungi play an important role in the search for structurally unique secondary metabolites, some of which show promising pharmacological activities that make them useful leads for drug discovery. Marine natural product research in China in general has made enormous progress in the last two decades as described in this chapter on fungal metabolites. This contribution covers 613 new natural products reported from 2001 to 2017 from marine-derived fungi obtained from algae, sponges, corals, and other marine organisms from Chinese waters. The genera Aspergillus (170 new natural products, 28%) and Penicillium (70 new natural products, 11%) were the main fungal producers of new natural products during the time period covered, whereas sponges (184 new natural products, 30%) were the most abundant source of new natural products, followed by corals (154 new natural products, 25%) and algae (130 new natural products, 21%). Close to 40% of all natural products covered in this contribution displayed various bioactivities. The major bioactivities reported were cytotoxicity against different cancer cell lines, antimicrobial (mainly antibacterial) activity, and antiviral activity, which accounted for 13%, 9%, and 3% of all natural products reported. In terms of structural classes, polyketides (188 new natural products, 31%) play a dominant role, and if prenylated polyketides and nitrogen-containing polyketides (included in meroterpenes and alkaloids in this contribution) are taken into account, their total number even exceeds 50%. Nitrogen-containing compounds including peptides (65 new natural products, 10%) and alkaloids (103 new natural products, 17%) are the second largest group.","23":"Sesterterpenoids are known as a relatively small group of natural products. However, they represent a variety of simple to more complex structural types. This contribution focuses on the chemical structures of sesterterpenoids and how their structures are constructed in Nature.","24":"More than 100 Ligularia species and those of several related genera (Cremanthodium, Cacalia, Senecio, and others) in the plant family Senecioneae grow in East Asia. For many years, researchers have studied the chemical constituents of these plants, and terpenoids, flavonoids, sterols, alkaloids, and aromatic compounds have been isolated. Among these, in particular, numerous sesquiterpenoids were reported. In this contribution, relevant chemical studies are described mainly from literature reports appearing since 2000, inclusive of investigations performed by the present authors, on the diversity in secondary metabolites of Ligularia growing in the Hengduan Mountains area of China, focusing on eremophilane sesquiterpenoids and other metabolites. Terpenoids and aromatic compounds (totaling 1049), both new and known, are listed. Genetic studies and synthesis investigations are also reviewed briefly.","25":"Natural remedies have for centuries played a significant role in traditional medicine and continue to be a unique reservoir of new chemical entities in drug discovery and development research. Propolis is a natural substance, collected by bees mainly from plant resins, which has a long history of use as a folk remedy to treat a variety of ailments. The highly variable phytochemical composition of propolis is attributed to differences in plant diversity within the geographic regions from which it is collected. Despite the fact that the last five decades has seen significant advancements in the understanding of the chemistry and biological activity of propolis, a search of the literature has revealed that studies on African propolis to date are rather limited. The aim of this contribution is to report on the current body of knowledge of African propolis, with a particular emphasis on its chemistry and biological activity. As Africa is a continent with a rich flora and a vast diversity of ecosystems, there is a wide range of propolis phytochemicals that may be exploited in the development of new drug scaffolds.","26":"Since higher plants are unable to move in their environment, interesting and mysterious developmental events (allelopathy, phototropism, apical dominance, nyctinasty, flowering, senescence) are observed in their life cycle. Chemical compounds released from plant organs to the neighboring environment stimulate or suppress the development and\/or growth of other plants; this chemical interaction is called \"allelopathy.\" The bending of the organs of a plant toward the light is a well-known phenomenon called \"phototropism.\" The growth of lateral buds of some plants is normally repressed by a strongly growing main shoot apex and is the so-called \"apical dominance\". Plants open their leaves during the day and close them at night as if sleeping is known as \"nyctinasty.\" Herein, recent studies on isolation and structure elucidation of bioactive compounds involved in their life cycle and determination of the molecular mechanisms for these developmental events are described.","27":"Isolation, structure determination, synthesis, and biochemistry of the low-molecular-weight compounds of the secretion of exocrine glands of termites are described, with an emphasis on pheromones and defensive compounds.","28":"Cheminformatics-based techniques, such as molecular modeling, docking, virtual screening, and machine learning, are well accepted for their usefulness in drug discovery and development of therapeutically relevant small molecules. Although delayed by several decades, their application in natural product research has led to outstanding findings. Combining information obtained from different sources, i.e., virtual predictions, traditional medicine, structural, biochemical, and biological data, and handling big data effectively will open up new possibilities, but also challenges in the future. Strategies and examples will be presented on how to integrate cheminformatics in pharmacognostic workflows to benefit from these two highly complementary disciplines toward streamlining experimental efforts. While considering their limits and pitfalls and by exploiting their potential, computer-aided strategies should successfully guide future studies and thereby augment our knowledge of bioactive natural lead structures.","29":null,"30":"Fragment-like natural products play a pivotal role in natural product research given their improved synthetic and computational tractability as well as commercial availability compared to more complex natural product structures. A multitude of computational tools have been developed to support the generation, analysis, and application of natural fragments for drug discovery and chemical biology research. In this contribution, the challenges and opportunities in such workflows are discussed and contextualized. Multiple successful applications and validations discussed herein attest to the relevance of natural fragments for drug discovery and the utility of machine learning and data science to support such endeavors.","31":"Pharmacophore-based techniques currently are an integral part of many computer-aided drug design workflows and have been successfully and extensively applied for tasks such as virtual screening, de novo design, and lead optimization. Pharmacophore models can be derived both in a receptor-based and in a ligand-based manner, and provide an abstract description of essential non-bonded interactions that typically occur between small-molecule ligands and macromolecular targets. Due to their simplistic and abstract nature, pharmacophores are both perfectly suited for efficient computer processing and easy to comprehend by life and physical scientists. As a consequence, they have also proven to be a valuable tool for communicating between computational and medicinal chemists.This chapter aims to provide a short overview of the pharmacophore concept and its applications in modern computer-aided drug design. The chapter is divided into three distinct parts. The first section contains a brief introduction to the pharmacophore concept. The second section provides a description of the most common nonbonded interaction types and their representation as pharmacophoric features. Furthermore, it gives an overview of the various methods for pharmacophore generation and important pharmacophore-based techniques in drug design. This part concludes with examples for recent pharmacophore concept-related research and development. The last section is dedicated to a review of research in the field of natural product chemistry as carried out by employing pharmacophore-based drug design methods.","32":"Natural products have long played a leading role as direct source of drugs or as a means to inspire informed molecular design. Indeed, natural products have been biologically prevalidated as protein-binding motifs by millions of years of evolutionary pressure. Despite the tailored architectures, and the ever-growing chemistry toolbox to aid access such privileged structures, identifying the modes of action by which these molecules can be harnessed as therapeutics remains a major bottleneck in discovery chemistry. Herein, an overview of cheminformatics methods applied to the identification of modes of action of natural products is given, and a discussion of successful case studies is provided. A special focus is given to machine learning methods that may help to streamline the development of natural products into drug leads.","33":"Natural products from plants, marine life, animals, fungi, bacteria, and other organisms remain the most productive source of inspiration for small-molecule drug discovery. Today, a wealth of information on natural products that is particularly valuable to applications in cheminformatics is at our disposal. In this contribution, we provide a timely overview of relevant resources for measured chemical, biological, and structural data on natural products. In particular, we comment on the accessibility, scope, chemical space, and limitations of the individual data sources. The bottleneck of natural products remains the limited availability of material for testing. In this context, we analyze the number of natural products readily obtainable from commercial and other sources.","34":"The chemistry of natural products is fascinating and has continuously attracted the attention of the scientific community for many reasons including, but not limited to, biosynthesis pathways, chemical diversity, the source of bioactive compounds and their marked impact on drug discovery. There is a broad range of experimental and computational techniques (molecular modeling and cheminformatics) that have evolved over the years and have assisted the investigation of natural products. Herein, we discuss cheminformatics strategies to explore the chemistry and applications of natural products. Since the potential synergisms between cheminformatics and natural products are vast, we will focus on three major aspects: (1) exploration of the chemical space of natural products to identify bioactive compounds, with emphasis on drug discovery; (2) assessment of the toxicity profile of natural products; and (3) diversity analysis of natural product collections and the design of chemical collections inspired by natural sources.","35":"Endophytic Actinobacteria are a microbial group that is still poorly investigated. Their association with plants constitutes a unique trait conferring specific biological and chemical features to endophytic Actinobacteria. This contribution discusses aspects of endophytic actinobacterial biology and chemistry comprehensively, including the biosynthesis and total synthesis of secondary metabolites produced in culture. It also presents perspectives for the future of microbial bioactive natural products discovery, with emphasis on the secondary metabolism of endophytic Actinobacteria.","36":"Oxyprenylated secondary metabolites (e.g. phenylpropanoids and polyketides) represent a rare class of natural compounds. Over the past two decades, this group of phytochemicals has become a topic of intense research activity by several teams worldwide due to their in vitro and in vivo pharmacological activities, and to their great therapeutic and nutraceutical potential for the chemoprevention of acute and chronic diseases affecting humans. Such investigations have provided evidence that oxyprenylated secondary metabolites are able to interact with several biological targets at different levels accounting for their observed anticarcinogenic, anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, immunomodulatory, antihypertensive, and metabolic effects. The aim of the present contribution is to provide a detailed survey of the so far reported data on the capacities of selected oxyprenylated phenylpropanoids and polyketides to trigger receptors, enzymes, and other types of cellular factors for which they exhibit a high degree of affinity and therefore evoke specific responses. With respect to the rather small amounts of these compounds available from natural sources, their chemical synthesis is also highlighted.","37":"Herbal medicines are an integral element of alternative medical care in Mexico, and the best testimony to their efficacy and cultural value is their persistence in contemporary Mexican marketplaces where the highest percentages of medicinal and aromatic plants are sold. This chapter summarizes current trends in research on medicinal plants in Mexico, with emphasis on work carried out at the authors' laboratories. The most relevant phytochemical and pharmacological profiles of a selected group of plants used widely for treating major national health problems are described.From this contribution, it is evident that in the last five decades a significant amount of research on medicinal plants has been performed by Mexican scientists. Such efforts have led to the publication of many research papers in noted peer-reviewed journals and technical books. The isolation and structural characterization of hundreds of bioactive secondary metabolites have been accomplished, and most importantly, these studies have tended to support the ethnomedical uses of many different species. A multidisciplinary approach for investigating these plants has led to an increased emphasis on areas such as phytopharmacology, phytotoxicology, quality control, regulation, and conservation issues for these valuable resources. The medicinal plants analyzed so far have shown a very broad chemical diversity of their constituents, which have a high potential for exhibiting novel mechanistic effects biologically. The chapter shows also that there is need to conduct additional clinical studies on herbal drugs, in particular because the longstanding traditional evidence for their safety is not always sufficient to assure their rational use. There is also need to move to \"omics\" approaches for investigating the holistic effect and the influence of groups of phytochemicals on the whole organism. Mexican scientists may be expected to have bright prospects in this regard, which will imbue medicinal plant research with a new dynamism in the future.","38":null,"39":"Many of the clinically used anticancer agents in Western medicine are derived from secondary metabolites found in terrestrial microbes, marine organisms, and higher plants, with additional compounds of this type being currently in clinical trials. If plants are taken specifically, it is generally agreed that the prospects of encountering enhanced small organic-molecule chemical diversity are better if tropical rather than temperate species are investigated in drug discovery efforts. Plant collection in tropical source countries requires considerable preparation and organization to conduct in a responsible manner that abides by the provisions of the 1992 Rio Convention of Biological Diversity and the 2010 Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources. Correct taxonomic identifications and enhanced procedures for processing and documenting plant samples when collected in often difficult terrain are required. Phytochemical aspects of the work involve solvent fractionation, known compound dereplication, preliminary in vitro testing, and prioritization, leading to \"activity-guided fractionation\", compound structure determination, and analog development. Further evaluation of lead compounds requires solubility, formulation, preliminary pharmacokinetics, and in vivo testing in suitable models. Covering the work of the authors carried out in two sequential multidisciplinary, multi-institutional research projects, examples of very promising compounds discovered from plants acquired from Africa, Southeast Asia, the Americas, and the Caribbean region, and with potential anticancer activity will be mentioned. These include plant secondary metabolites of the diphyllin lignan, cyclopenta[b]benzofuran, triterpenoid, and tropane alkaloid types.","40":"Coumarins are the largest group of 1-benzopyran derivatives found in plants. The initial member of this group of compounds, coumarin (2H-1-benzopyran-2-one), a fragrant colorless compound, was first isolated from the Tonka bean (Dipteryx odorata, family Fabaceae) in 1820. The name coumarin comes from a French term for the tonka bean, coumarou. Since the discovery of coumarin, several of its derivatives, with umbelliferone (7-hydroxycoumarin) being the most common one, have been reported from various natural sources. The families Apiaceae, Asteraceae, and Rutaceae are the three major plant sources of coumarins.Generally, these plant secondary metabolites may be classified into simple, simple prenylated, simple geranylated, furano, pyrano, sesquiterpenyl and oligomeric coumarins. Using this standard classification, this chapter aims to present an account on the advances of the chemistry of naturally occurring coumarins, as reported in the literature during the period 2013-2015.In Sect. 1, the coumarins are introduced and their generic biosynthetic route discussed briefly. In Sect. 2, the largest of the three sections, various classes of natural coumarins are detailed, with their relevant structures and the citation of appropriate references. In a concluding section, it is highlighted that during the last 3 years, more than 400 coumarins have been reported in the literature. Many of these coumarins have been re-isolations of known compounds from known or new sources, most often associated with various biological activities. However, a substantial number of coumarins bearing new skeletons, especially dimers, prenylated furanocoumarins, sesquiterpenyl, and some unusual coumarins were also reported during the period of 2013-2015.Coumarin chemistry remains one of the major interest areas of phytochemists, especially because of their structural diversity and medicinal properties, along with the wide-ranging bioactivities of these compounds, inclusive of analgesic, anticoagulant anti-HIV, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antineoplastic, antioxidant, and immunomodulatory effects. Despite significant advancements in the extraction, isolation, structure elucidation and bioactivity testing of naturally occurring coumarins, only a marginal advancement has been observed recently in relation to the study of their biosynthesis.","41":"Peptidylarginine deiminase (PAD) enzymes are of enormous interest in biomedicine. They catalyze the conversion of a positively-charged guanidinium at an arginine side chain into a neutral ureido group. As a result of this conversion, proteins acquire the non-ribosomally encoded amino acid \"citrulline\". This imposes critical influences on the structure and function of the target molecules. In multiple sclerosis, myelin hyper-citrullination promotes demyelination by reducing its compaction and triggers auto-antibody production. Immune responses to citrulline-containing proteins play a central role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Moreover, auto-antibodies, specific to citrullinated proteins, such as collagen type I and II and filaggrin, are early detectable in rheumatoid arthritis, serving as diagnostic markers of the disease. Despite their significance, little is understood about the role in demyelinating disorders, diversified cancers, and auto-immune diseases. To impart their biological and pathological effects, it is crucial to better understand the reaction mechanism, kinetic properties, substrate selection, and specificities of peptidylarginine deiminase isoforms.Many aspects of PAD biochemistry and physiology have been ignored in past, but, herein is presented a comprehensive survey to improve our current understandings of the underlying mechanism and regulation of PAD enzymes.","42":"Secondary metabolites of higher fungi (mushrooms) are an underexplored resource compared to plant-derived secondary metabolites. An increasing interest in mushroom natural products has been noted in recent years. This chapter gives a comprehensive overview of the secondary metabolites from higher fungi, with 765 references highlighting the isolation, structure elucidation, biological activities, chemical syntheses, and biosynthesis of pigments, nitrogen-containing compounds, and terpenoids from mushrooms. Mushroom toxins are also included in each section.In a section on pigments of higher fungi, pigments are classified into four categories, namely, those from the shikimate-chorismate, acetate-malonate, and mevalonate biosynthetic pathways, and pigments containing nitrogen, with 145 references covering the years 2010-2016.In a section on other nitrogen-containing compounds of higher fungi, compounds are categorized primarily into nitrogen heterocycles, nucleosides, non-protein amino acids, cyclic peptides, and sphingolipids, with 65 references covering the years 2010-2016. In turn, in a section describing terpenoids of higher fungi, the sesquiterpenoids and diterpenoids are thoroughly elaborated, spanning the years 2001-2016, and 2009-2016, respectively. The divergent biosynthetic pathways from farnesyl pyrophosphate to sesquiterpenoids are also described. Selected triterpenoids with novel structures and promising biological activities, including lanostanes and ergostanes, are reported from the genus Ganoderma, and the fungi Antrodia cinnamomea and Poria cocos. In addition, cucurbitanes and saponaceolides are also compiled in this section.","43":"Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy contributes very efficiently to the structure elucidation process in organic chemistry. Carbon-13 NMR spectroscopy allows direct insight into the skeleton of organic compounds and therefore plays a central role in the structural assignment of natural products. Despite this important contribution, there is no established and well-accepted workflow protocol utilized during the first steps of interpreting spectroscopic data and converting them into structural fragments and then combining them, by considering the given spectroscopic constraints, into a final proposal of structure. The so-called \"combinatorial explosion\" in the process of structure generation allows in many cases the generation of reasonable alternatives, which are usually ignored during manual interpretation of the measured data leading ultimately to a large number of structural revisions. Furthermore, even when the determined structure is correct, problems may exist such as assignment errors, ignoring chemical shift values, or assigning lines of impurities to the compound under consideration. An extremely large heterogeneity in the presentation of carbon NMR data can be observed, but, as a result of the efficiency and precision of spectrum prediction, the published data can be analyzed in substantial detail.This contribution presents a comprehensive analysis of frequently occurring errors with respect to 13C NMR spectroscopic data and proposes a straightforward protocol to eliminate a high percentage of the most obvious errors. The procedure discussed can be integrated readily into the processes of submission and peer-reviewing of manuscripts.","44":"Iboga alkaloids are a particular class of indolomonoterpenes most often characterized by an isoquinuclidine nucleus. Their first occurrence was detected in the roots of Tabernanthe iboga, a sacred plant to the people of Gabon, which made it cult object. Ibogaine is the main representative of this class of alkaloids and its psychoactive properties are well documented. It has been proposed as a drug cessation treatment and has a wide range of activities in targeting opioids, cocaine, and alcohol. The purpose of this chapter is to provide a background on this molecule and related compounds and to update knowledge on the most recent advances made. Difficulties linked to the status of ibogaine as a drug in several countries have hampered its development, but 18-methoxycoronaridine is currently under evaluation for the same purposes and for the treatment of leishmaniasis. The chapter is divided into six parts: an introduction aiming at defining what is called an iboga alkaloid, and this is followed by current knowledge on their biosynthesis, which unfortunately remains a \"black box\" as far as the key construction step is concerned. Many of these alkaloids are still being discovered and the third and fourth parts of the chapter discuss the analytical tools in use for this purpose and give lists of new monomeric and dimeric alkaloids belonging to this class. When necessary, the structures are discussed especially with regard to absolute configuration determinations, which remain a point of weakness in their assignments. Part V gives an account of progress made in the synthesis, partial and total, which the authors believe is key to providing solid solutions to the industrial development of the most promising molecules. The last part of the chapter is devoted to the biological properties of iboga alkaloids, with particular emphasis on ibogaine and 18-methoxycoronaridine.","45":"Caffeine is a xanthine alkaloid found in non-alcoholic beverages such as tea, coffee, and cocoa. It was discovered in tea and coffee in the 1820s, but it was not until 2000 that details of molecular events associated with caffeine biosynthesis began to be unraveled. Reviewed are the occurrence of xanthine alkaloids in the plant kingdom and the elucidation of the caffeine biosynthesis pathway, providing details of the N-methyltransferases, belonging to the motif B' methyltransferase family, which catalyze three steps in the four-step pathway leading from xanthosine to caffeine. Pathways for the metabolism and degradation of xanthine alkaloids are discussed, although as yet the genes and enzymes involved have not been isolated. This chapter also considers the in planta role of caffeine in chemical defense that has been demonstrated using transgenic caffeine-forming tobacco and chrysanthemum plants, which are resistant to attack by pathogens and herbivores. Finally, future research is considered that might lead to the production of naturally decaffeinated beverages and agricultural crops that contain elevated levels of \"natural\" pesticides.","46":null,"47":"The natural products synthesized by organisms that were living a long time ago gave rise to their molecular fossils. These can consist of either the original unchanged compounds or they may undergo peripheral transformations in which their skeletons remain intact. In cases when molecular fossils can be traced to their organismic source, they are termed \"geological biomarkers\".This contribution describes apolar and polar molecular fossils and, in particular biomarkers, along the lines usually followed in organic chemistry textbooks, and points to their bioprecursors when available. Thus, the apolar compounds are divided in linear and branched alkanes followed by alicyclic compounds and aromatic and heterocyclic molecules, and, in particular, the geoporphyrins. The polar molecular fossils contain as functional groups or constituent units ethers, alcohols, phenols, carbonyl groups, flavonoids, quinones, and acids, or are polymers like kerogen, amber, melanin, proteins, or nucleic acids. The final sections discuss the methodology used and the fundamental processes encountered by the biomolecules described, including diagenesis, catagenesis, and metagenesis.","48":null,"49":null,"50":"The changing legal landscape including medicinal and recreational consumption of Cannabis sativa has led to renewed interest to study the chemistry and biology of cannabinoids. The chemistry in this chapter highlights approaches to cannabinoid total synthesis with an emphasis on the implementation of modern methods and tactics, which provide access to modified structures and enable investigations of the biology of the cannabinoid product family.","51":null,"52":"","53":"Nature, the most prolific source of biological and chemical diversity, has provided mankind with treatments for health problems since ancient times and continues to be the most promising reservoir of bioactive chemicals for the development of modern drugs. In addition to the terrestrial organisms that still remain a promising source of new bioactive metabolites, the marine environment, covering approximately 70% of the Earth's surface and containing a largely unexplored biodiversity, offers an enormous resource for the discovery of novel compounds. According to the MarinLit database, more than 27,000 metabolites from marine macro- and microorganisms have been isolated to date providing material and key structures for the development of new products in the pharmaceutical, food, cosmeceutical, chemical, and agrochemical sectors. Algae, which thrive in the euphotic zone, were among the first marine organisms that were investigated as sources of food, nutritional supplements, soil fertilizers, and bioactive metabolites.Red algae of the genus Laurencia are accepted unanimously as one of the richest sources of new secondary metabolites. Their cosmopolitan distribution, along with the chemical variation influenced to a significant degree by environmental and genetic factors, have resulted in an endless parade of metabolites, often featuring multiple halogenation sites.The present contribution, covering the literature until August 2015, offers a comprehensive view of the chemical wealth and the taxonomic problems currently impeding chemical and biological investigations of the genus Laurencia. Since mollusks feeding on Laurencia are, in many cases, bioaccumulating, and utilize algal metabolites as chemical weaponry against natural enemies, metabolites of postulated dietary origin of sea hares that feed on Laurencia species are also included in the present review. Altogether, 1047 secondary metabolites, often featuring new carbocyclic skeletons, have been included.The chapter addresses: (1) the \"Laurencia complex\", the botanical description and the growth and population dynamics of the genus, as well as its chemical diversity and ecological relations; (2) the secondary metabolites, which are organized according to their chemical structures and are classified into sesquiterpenes, diterpenes, triterpenes, acetogenins, indoles, aromatic compounds, steroids, and miscellaneous compounds, as well as their sources of isolation which are depicted in tabulated form, and (3) the biological activity organized according to the biological target and the ecological functions of Laurencia metabolites. ","54":null,"55":"In recent decades, annonaceous acetogenins have become highly studied plant secondary metabolites in terms of their isolation, structure elucidation, synthesis, biological evaluation, mechanism of action, and toxicity. The aim of the present contribution is to summarize chemical and biological reports published since 1997 on annonaceous acetogenins and synthetic acetogenin mimics. The compounds are considered biologically in terms of their cytotoxicity for cancer cell lines, neurotoxicity, pesticidal effects, and miscellaneous activities. ","56":"It is widely accepted that a large number of proteins that are responsible for cellular function exist as dimers or need to be activated by dimerization before mediating certain signaling pathways. Simultaneously targeting both monomeric moieties of the dimeric proteins has shown potential in the development of various therapeutic agents. As dimeric molecules might be able to act on both moieties of a dimeric protein, dimeric sesquiterpenoids (DSs), which are generated biogenetically from coupling of two sesquiterpenoid molecules, are in essence potential biologically active molecules, and have attracted in recent years great attention for their peculiar structures and biological activities. In fact, a number of DSs are more potent than their monomeric precursors for some activities such as anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor, immunosuppressive, potassium channel blocking, antimalarial, anti-virus, and neurotrophic activities.The complex and diversified structures of DSs also attracted attention of chemists in their isolation, structural elucidation, and synthetic construction.In the contribution, a general view of the classification and distribution of DSs will be provided. Strategies for the structural elucidation of DSs and their analogues is presented. Chemical strategies for the convergence of the two sesquiterpenoid units is reviewed. Biological activities are discussed under each type of activity. ","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":""},"articletitle":{"0":"The Genus Walsura: A Rich Resource of Bioactive Limonoids, Triterpenoids, and Other Types of Compounds.","1":"Chemical Ecology of the North American Newt Genera Taricha and Notophthalmus.","2":"The Chemistry of Agarwood Odorants.","3":"Complex Natural Products Derived from Pyrogallols.","4":"Antimalarial Natural Products.","5":"Biologically Active Constituents from Plants of the Genus Desmos.","6":"Biologically Active Constituents from Plants of the Genus Xanthium.","7":"A Timeline of Perezone, the First Isolated Secondary Metabolite in the New World, Covering the Period from 1852 to 2020.","8":"The Chemistry and Chemical Ecology of Lepidopterans as Investigated in Brazil.","9":"Marine Biodiscovery in a Changing World.","10":"Correction to: Antileishmanial Activity of Lignans, Neolignans, and Other Plant Phenols.","11":"Recent Advances in the Chemistry and Pharmacology of Cryptolepine.","12":"Antileishmanial Activity of Lignans, Neolignans, and Other Plant Phenols.","13":"From Plant to Patient: Thapsigargin, a Tool for Understanding Natural Product Chemistry, Total Syntheses, Biosynthesis, Taxonomy, ATPases, Cell Death, and Drug Development.","14":"The Role of Total Synthesis in Structure Revision and Elucidation of Decanolides (Nonanolides).","15":"Human Endogenous Natural Products.","16":"New Techniques of Structure Elucidation for Sesquiterpenes.","17":"Bioactive Compounds from Medicinal Plants in Myanmar.","18":"Progress in the Chemistry of Cytochalasans.","19":"Taccalonolide Microtubule Stabilizers.","20":"The Phytochemistry and Pharmacology of Hypericum.","21":"Allelopathy: The Chemical Language of Plants.","22":"Secondary Metabolites from Marine-Derived Fungi from China.","23":"Sesterterpenoids.","24":"Chemical Constituents of Ligularia Species (Asteraceae) and Their Diversity in East Asia.","25":"Chemical Diversity and Biological Activity of African Propolis.","26":"Bioactive Compounds Involved in the Life Cycle of Higher Plants.","27":"Chemistry of the Secondary Metabolites of Termites.","28":"A Strength-Weaknesses-Opportunities-Threats (SWOT) Analysis of Cheminformatics in Natural Product Research.","29":"Open-Access Activity Prediction Tools for Natural Products. Case Study: hERG Blockers.","30":"Cheminformatic Analysis of Natural Product Fragments.","31":"The Pharmacophore Concept and Its Applications in Computer-Aided Drug Design.","32":"A Toolbox for the Identification of Modes of Action of Natural Products.","33":"Resources for Chemical, Biological, and Structural Data on Natural Products.","34":"Cheminformatics Explorations of Natural Products.","35":"Secondary Metabolites of Endophytic Actinomycetes: Isolation, Synthesis, Biosynthesis, and Biological Activities.","36":"Biomolecular Targets of Oxyprenylated Phenylpropanoids and Polyketides.","37":"Chemistry and Biology of Selected Mexican Medicinal Plants.","38":"An Update of Erythrinan Alkaloids and Their Pharmacological Activities.","39":"The Search for Anticancer Agents from Tropical Plants.","40":"Progress in the Chemistry of Naturally Occurring Coumarins.","41":"Human Deiminases: Isoforms, Substrate Specificities, Kinetics, and Detection.","42":"Secondary Metabolites from Higher Fungi.","43":"A Critical Evaluation of the Quality of Published 13C NMR Data in Natural Product Chemistry.","44":"The Iboga Alkaloids.","45":"Xanthine Alkaloids: Occurrence, Biosynthesis, and Function in Plants.","46":"Phthalides: Distribution in Nature, Chemical Reactivity, Synthesis, and Biological Activity.","47":"Natural Product Molecular Fossils.","48":"Molecular Targets of the Phytocannabinoids: A Complex Picture.","49":"Molecular Pharmacology of Phytocannabinoids.","50":"Synthesis of Phytocannabinoids.","51":"Phytochemistry of Cannabis sativa L.","52":"Erratum to: Dimeric Sesquiterpenoids.","53":"The Laurencia Paradox: An Endless Source of Chemodiversity.","54":"Ingenane Diterpenoids.","55":"Acetogenins from Annonaceae.","56":"Dimeric Sesquiterpenoids.","57":"The Series \"Progress in the Chemistry of Organic Natural Products\": 75 years of service in the development of natural product chemistry.","58":"Vibrational circular dichroism absolute configuration determination of natural products.","59":"Nuclear magnetic resonance in the structural elucidation of natural products.","60":"Mass spectrometry in natural product structure elucidation.","61":"Structure elucidation of natural compounds by X-ray crystallography.","62":"Foreword. Methodology.","63":"Genome mining: concept and strategies for natural product discovery.","64":"Bioactive heterocyclic natural products from actinomycetes having effects on cancer-related signaling pathways.","65":"A colorful history: the evolution of indigoids.","66":"Pharmacognosy of black cohosh: the phytochemical and biological profile of a major botanical dietary supplement.","67":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products. The chemistry of mycotoxins.","68":"Chemical constituents of bryophytes. Bio- and chemical diversity, biological activity, and chemosystematics.","69":"Bilirubin: Jekyll and Hyde pigment of life; pursuit of its structure through two world wars to the new millenium.","70":"Asymmetric organocatalysis in natural product syntheses.","71":"Withanolides and related steroids.","72":"Chemistry of the immunomodulatory macrolide ascomycin and related analogues.","73":"Chemistry and biology of rocaglamides (= flavaglines) and related derivatives from aglaia species (meliaceae)."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","1":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","2":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","3":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","4":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","5":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","6":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","7":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","8":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","9":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","10":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","11":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","12":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","13":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","14":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","15":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","16":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","17":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","18":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","19":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","20":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","21":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","22":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","23":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","24":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","25":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","26":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","27":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","28":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","29":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","30":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","31":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","32":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","33":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","34":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","35":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","36":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","37":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","38":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","39":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","40":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","41":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","42":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","43":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","44":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","45":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","46":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","47":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","48":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","49":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","50":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","51":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","52":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","53":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","54":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","55":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","56":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","57":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","58":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","59":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","60":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","61":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","62":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","63":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","64":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","65":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","66":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","67":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","68":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","69":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","70":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","71":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","72":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products","73":"Progress in the chemistry of organic natural products"},"keyword":{"0":"Biological activitiesLimonoidsPhytochemistryTriterpenoidsWalsura","1":"Batesian mimicryCaudataCoevolutionKeystone moleculeNewtsNotophthalmusSalamandridaeTarichaTetrodotoxin","2":"AgarwoodAquilaria spp.Gyrinops spp.OdorantsOud","3":"CascadesCycloadditionsFungal metabolitesPyrogallolsRacemic natural productso-Quinones","4":"AlkaloidsArtemisininMalariaMechanism of actionNatural productsPlasmodium falciparumQuinineTerpenoids","5":"Biological activity assessmentDesmosPhytochemistry","6":"Biological activity assessmentPhytochemistryXanthanolidesXanthium","7":"Chemical modificationsIsolationPerezonePharmacological evaluationsSesquiterpene quinoneTheoretic studies","8":"AcraeiniAristolochic acidsBrazilHeliconiiniIthomiiniLepidopteraPyrrolizidine alkaloids","9":"BioprospectingBiorepositoriesData management systemMarine biodiscoveryMarine natural productsScreeningsTaxonomy","10":"","11":"AnticancerAntimalarialAntiprotozoalCryptolepis sanguinolentaDrug developmentIndoloquinoline","12":"Biological activityLeishmaniasisLignansNeolignansPhenolic secondary metabolitesPhenylpropanoids","13":"ApoptosisDrug developmentMipsagarginSarco-endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPaseTargeted prodrugsThapsigargin","14":"Chiral-poolDecanolidesNonanolidesStructure revisionTen-membered lactonesTotal synthesis","15":"DiseaseEndogenousHuman healthHuman microbiomeNatural products","16":"Chiroptical propertiesMolecular modelingNMR spectroscopyQuantum mechanical calculationsSesquiterpenesStructure elucidationX-ray diffraction","17":"MyanmarPhytoconstituentsTraditional medicineUnprecedented compounds","18":"Biological activitiesBiosynthesisChemical synthesisCytochalasansFungal metabolites","19":"Antitumor natural productMicrotubule stabilizerMicrotubule-targeted agentTaccalonolide","20":"Biological activitiesChemical constituentsHypericum","21":"AllelochemicalsAllelopathyDecompositionExudationLeachingPlant-microbe interactionPlant-plant interactionVolatilization","22":"Antimicrobial activityChinaCytotoxicityMarine-derived fungiNatural products","23":"IsoprenoidsSesterterpenoidsTerpenoids","24":"Aromatic compoundsAsteraceaeDiversityLigulariaStructureTerpenoids","25":"AfricaBiological activityChemical diversityPhytochemicalsPropolis","26":"AllelopathyApical dominanceBioactive compoundsFloweringHigher plantsLife cycleNyctinastyPhototropismSenescence","27":"Alarm pheromonesBiosynthesisCuticular hydrocarbonsDefenseDiterpenesIsolationKeto aldehydesLong-chain vinyl ketonesMacrolactonesMonoterpenesNitroalkenesPheromonesPolycyclic neocembrene derivativesPrimer pheromonesSesquiterpenesSex-pairing pheromonesStructure determinationSynthesesTermitesTrail-following pheromones","28":"Big dataCheminformaticsDrug discoveryNatural productTraditional medicineVirtual screening","29":"ADMET predictionActivity profilingHuman ether-a-go-go-related geneNatural productsTarget predictionVirtual screeninghERG","30":"CheminformaticsData scienceFragment-based drug discoveryMachine learningNatural productsRetrosynthesisScaffoldsSubstructure search","31":"De novo designDrug designPharmacophoreVirtual screening","32":"Chemical biologyCheminformaticsDrug discoveryMachine learningMedicinal chemistryNatural productsTarget identification","33":"Chemical spaceCheminformaticsComponents of traditional medicinesDatabasesDrug discoveryNatural productsReadily obtainable natural productsVendorsVirtual screening","34":"Chemical spaceDatabasesEpi-pharmacologyMachine learningTarget fishingToxicityVirtual screening","35":"Alkaloid total synthesisBiosynthesisEndophytic actinobacteriaPolyketide total synthesis","36":"ApiaceaeBiological targetsCancerCoumarinsInflammationNeuroprotectionOxyprenylated secondary metabolitesRutaceae","37":"Analgesic and anti-inflammatory agentsAntiasthmatic agentsAntidiabetic plantsAntiparasiticsAntiulcer plantsAnxiolytic and sleep-aid agentsChemical diversityCytotoxic activityEthnomedical usesMexican medicinal plantsSmooth muscle-relaxant agents","38":"CNS activityChemical synthesis proceduresErythrinan alkaloidsErythrinan corePharmacological activitiesStructural varietyStructure-activity relationship studies","39":"Anticancer agentsLaboratory processingLead bioactive compound examplesPlant collection logisticsRelevant international conventionsTaxonomic identificationTropical plants","40":"BiosynthesisCoumarinsFuranocoumarinsOligomeric coumarinsPlantsPyranocoumarinsSecondary metabolitesSesquiterpenyl coumarinsSimple coumarins","41":"Auto-citrullinationAutoimmune diseasesDetection assayEnzyme regulationNeurodegenerationPeptidylarginine deiminase (PAD) enzymesSelective inhibitorsSubstrate selectivityTherapeutic target","42":"Biological activityBiosynthesisChemical synthesisDiterpenoidsHigher fungiMushroom toxinsMushroomsNitrogen-containing compoundsPigmentsSecondary metabolitesSesquiterpenoidsTriterpenoids","43":"13C-NMR\/Carbon NMRComputer-assisted structure elucidationIsomer generationNuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopyPeer-reviewingQuality of spectroscopic dataSignal assignmentSpectrum predictionStructure generationStructure revision","44":"BiosynthesisCytotoxicityDrug cessation treatmentIboga alkaloidsLeishmaniasisStructural elucidationSynthesis","45":"BiosynthesisCaffeineCamellia sinensisCatabolismCoffea sppFunctionMethylxanthinesOccurrenceTheobroma cacaoTransgenics","46":"BioactivityPhthalideReactivitySynthesisUmbelliferae","47":"AcidsAlcoholsAlkanesAmberApolar compoundsAromatic compoundsCarbonyl compoundsDiagenesisEthersFlavonoidsGeological biomarkersGeopolymersGeoporphyrinsHeterocyclic compoundsKerogenMolecular fossilsPhenolsQuinones","48":null,"49":"CannabisMolecular pharmacologyMolecular targetsPhytocannabinoid","50":"AsymmetricBisabosqualCannabinoidsConicolDiastereoselectiveEnantioselectiveEpiconicolMachaeriolPerrottetineneStereospecificSynthesisTetrahydrocannabinolTotal synthesis","51":"Analytical methodsBiosynthesisBotany of Cannabis sativaCannabinoids from C. sativaChemotaxonomyDefinitions of cannabis and cannabinoidsGC\/FIDGC\/MSHPLCHPTLCIndoor cultivationMicropropagationNon-cannabinoids from C. sativaOutdoor cultivationPropagationUPLC","52":"","53":null,"54":"DiterpenoidsDrug discoveryEuphorbiaIngenolProtein kinase C (PKC)","55":"Acetogenin mimicsAcetogeninsAnnonaceaeAnti-cancer activityApoptosisAtypical ParkinsonismIonophoresMitochondria complex I inhibitionNeurotoxicityPesticidal activity","56":"Compound disesquiterpenoidsDimeric aza-sesquiterpenoidsDimeric sesquiterpenoidsDisesquiterpenoidsNuphar alkaloidsPseudo-disesquiterpenoids","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":""},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng","6":"eng","7":"eng","8":"eng","9":"eng","10":"eng","11":"eng","12":"eng","13":"eng","14":"eng","15":"eng","16":"eng","17":"eng","18":"eng","19":"eng","20":"eng","21":"eng","22":"eng","23":"eng","24":"eng","25":"eng","26":"eng","27":"eng","28":"eng","29":"eng","30":"eng","31":"eng","32":"eng","33":"eng","34":"eng","35":"eng","36":"eng","37":"eng","38":"eng","39":"eng","40":"eng","41":"eng","42":"eng","43":"eng","44":"eng","45":"eng","46":"eng","47":"eng","48":"eng","49":"eng","50":"eng","51":"eng","52":"eng","53":"eng","54":"eng","55":"eng","56":"eng","57":"eng","58":"eng","59":"eng","60":"eng","61":"eng","62":"eng","63":"eng","64":"eng","65":"eng","66":"eng","67":"eng","68":"eng","69":"eng","70":"eng","71":"eng","72":"eng","73":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":35416519,"1":35416518,"2":35416517,"3":35416516,"4":34977998,"5":34698948,"6":34698947,"7":34698946,"8":34698945,"9":34698944,"10":33999291,"11":33797643,"12":33797642,"13":33797641,"14":33797640,"15":33792863,"16":33792862,"17":33792861,"18":33792860,"19":33306174,"20":33306173,"21":33306172,"22":32114663,"23":32114662,"24":33721145,"25":31637531,"26":31637530,"27":31637529,"28":31621015,"29":31621014,"30":31621013,"31":31621012,"32":31621011,"33":31621010,"34":31621009,"35":30924015,"36":30924014,"37":30924013,"38":30178271,"39":30178270,"40":28762091,"41":28762090,"42":28762089,"43":28194563,"44":28194562,"45":28194561,"46":28160212,"47":28160211,"48":28120232,"49":28120231,"50":28120230,"51":28120229,"52":27538412,"53":27380407,"54":27380406,"55":26659109,"56":26659108,"57":25632564,"58":25632563,"59":25632562,"60":25632561,"61":25632560,"62":25632559,"63":25296440,"64":25296439,"65":25296438,"66":25296437,"67":23781707,"68":23556317,"69":24597429,"70":23556316,"71":21833839,"72":21833838,"73":21833837},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2022,"2":2022,"3":2022,"4":2022,"5":2021,"6":2021,"7":2021,"8":2021,"9":2021,"10":2021,"11":2021,"12":2021,"13":2021,"14":2021,"15":2021,"16":2021,"17":2021,"18":2021,"19":2020,"20":2020,"21":2020,"22":2020,"23":2020,"24":2020,"25":2019,"26":2019,"27":2019,"28":2019,"29":2019,"30":2019,"31":2019,"32":2019,"33":2019,"34":2019,"35":2019,"36":2019,"37":2019,"38":2018,"39":2018,"40":2017,"41":2017,"42":2017,"43":2017,"44":2017,"45":2017,"46":2017,"47":2017,"48":2017,"49":2017,"50":2017,"51":2017,"52":2016,"53":2016,"54":2016,"55":2016,"56":2016,"57":2015,"58":2015,"59":2015,"60":2015,"61":2015,"62":2015,"63":2014,"64":2014,"65":2014,"66":2014,"67":2013,"68":2013,"69":2013,"70":2012,"71":2011,"72":2011,"73":2011}}