{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9},"abstracttext":{"0":"Trust in banks is key, especially in turbulent times. Using unique daily data for a representative panel of Dutch consumers, we examine to what extent the COVID-crisis has affected trust in banks' payment services. We have the following main findings. First, COVID-19 measures have affected trust in banks' payment services. The first lockdown increased narrow-scope trust (trust in consumers' own bank payment services) and broad-scope trust (trust in banks' payment services in general). The second lockdown decreased both notions of trust. The crisis measures impacted the trust of the elderly the strongest. Second, personal characteristics are significantly related to trust in banks' payment services. For example, we find that both types of trust are increasing with digital literacy and the ease of getting by with income. Third, narrow-scope trust is higher than broad-scope trust. The gap between trust in the own bank and trust in banks in general is highest for customers of small banks.","1":"This research documents employment opportunities of labour-market entrants during the COVID-19 crisis in the Netherlands. Two recent cohorts of graduates are studied and compared to two pre-COVID-19 cohorts: the 2019 cohort was unexpectedly hit by the COVID-19 crisis about six months after entering the labour market and the 2020 cohort graduated and entered the labour market in the midst of a lockdown. Our estimation results suggest short-term effects of lockdowns on employment probabilities, specifically for relatively lower educated labour-market entrants. The effects appear to be relatively small in size and seem to fade when the lockdown measures are eased. Men seem to have suffered more than women and some sectors are hit harder than others, which could result in short-run mismatches. Overall the effects appear to be less severe than during an economic recession, which is most likely due to the tight labour market and the strong measures taken by the government to mitigate the labour-market impact of the COVID-19 crisis.","2":"[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1007\/s10645-021-09389-y.].","3":"There has been a pronounced increase in online shopping since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. We study the effect of the pandemic on demand for online grocery shopping specifically, using municipality-level data from a Dutch online supermarket. We find that an additional hospital admission increased app traffic by 7.3 percent and sales per order by 0.31 percent. Local hospital admissions do not correlate with the variety of groceries ordered, but online search behavior does, suggesting that hoarding behavior is driven by the general perception and impact of the virus rather than local conditions. Local COVID-19 conditions also have different effects in urban versus non-urban municipalities, with local hospital admissions increasing app traffic in urban areas but lowering sales per order as compared to non-urban areas. It remains to be seen whether the demand for online grocery shopping will permanently increase as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007\/s10645-021-09389-y. ","4":"This paper aims to analyze the determinants of cash usage in a selection of European Union (EU) countries over the 2003-2016 period, based on a set of technological, socioeconomic, and socio-cultural indicators and cost components. Our results reveal the existence of both common and region-specific determinants for the EU advanced and Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries. In both groups cash usage is determined by payment system characteristics. Additionally, in the EU advanced countries cash usage can also be explained by the level of economic development and income inequalities and proliferation of Internet. In contrast, cash usage in CEE countries is negatively associated with consumer confidence and is inversely related to the technological progress, expressed in terms of mobile users.","5":"We explore the impact of COVID-19 hotspots and regional lockdowns on the Dutch labour market during the outbreak of COVID-19. Using weekly administrative panel microdata for 50 per cent of Dutch employees until the end of March 2020, we study whether individual labour market outcomes, as measured by employment, working hours and hourly wages, were more strongly affected in provinces where COVID-19 confirmed cases, hospitalizations and mortality were relatively high. The evidence suggests that labour market outcomes were negatively affected in all regions and local higher virus case numbers did not reinforce this decline. This suggests that preventive health measures should be at the regional level, isolating hotspots from low-risk areas.","6":"We study medical progress within a two-sector economy of overlapping generations subject to endogenous mortality. Individuals demand health care with a view to lowering mortality over their life-cycle. We characterise the individual optimum and the general equilibrium, and study the impact of a major medical innovation leading to an improvement in the effectiveness of health care. We find that general equilibrium effects dampen strongly the increase in health care usage following medical innovation. Moreover, an increase in savings offsets the negative impact on GDP per capita of a decline in the support ratio. Finally, we show that the reallocation of resources between the final goods and health care sector, following the innovation, plays a crucial role in shaping the general equilibrium impact.","7":"Using panel data on the age group 50-70 in 15 European countries, we analyze the effects of providing informal care to parents, parents-in-law, stepparents, and grandparents on employment status and work hours. We account for fixed individual effects and test for endogeneity of caregiving using moments exploiting standard instruments (e.g., parental death) as well as higher-order moment conditions (Lewbel instruments). Specification tests suggest that informal care provision and daily caregiving can be treated as exogenous variables. We find a significant and negative effect of daily caregiving on employment status and work hours. This effect is particularly strong for women. On the other hand, providing care at a weekly (or less than weekly) frequency does not significantly affect paid work. We do not find evidence of heterogeneous effects of caregiving on paid work across European regions.","8":"In the traditional retirement scenario, individuals work full-time or part-time until a given age, and then stop working abruptly. From the individual's point of view, it seems more attractive to have a smooth transition, with gradual retirement. In Sweden and other European countries, specific gradual retirement programs have been created in the past 20 years, first in combination with early retirement programs and later to increase labour market participation of older workers. This paper surveys the existing literature on gradual retirement in the US and Europe and analyzes the relevance of gradual retirement in the Netherlands as a tool to keep people employed longer.","9":"The relationship between fertility and socioeconomic equity is explored by analyzing data from developing countries to assess the interaction between 4 variables: fertility, life expectancy, schooling, and income distribution.  The theoretical model, based on findings of many past studies, is presented, and the results of regression analysis of fertility and socioeconomic variables are tabulated and discussed.  The results indicate that life expectancy and schooling are major determinants of fertility.  Income equity, contrary to expectations, did not influence fertility very much; fertility, however, did affect income equity considerably.  Policy directions based on these findings are suggested and sources of data are cited."},"articletitle":{"0":"Determinants of Trust in Banks' Payment Services During COVID: An Exploration Using Daily Data.","1":"The Short-Term Effect of the COVID-19 Crisis on Employment Probabilities of Labour-Market Entrants in the Netherlands.","2":"Correction to: COVID-19 and the Demand for Online Grocery Shopping: Empirical Evidence from the Netherlands.","3":"COVID-19 and the Demand for Online Grocery Shopping: Empirical Evidence from the Netherlands.","4":"What Factors Keep Cash Alive in the European Union?","5":"Regional Coronavirus Hotspots During the COVID-19 Outbreak in the Netherlands.","6":"On the Anatomy of Medical Progress Within an Overlapping Generations Economy.","7":"Informal Caregiving, Employment Status and Work Hours of the 50+ Population in Europe.","8":"GRADUAL RETIREMENT: PREFERENCES AND LIMITATIONS.","9":"Socioeconomic equity and fertility in developing countries: a block-recursive model."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":""},"journal_title":{"0":"De Economist","1":"De Economist","2":"De Economist","3":"De Economist","4":"De Economist","5":"De Economist","6":"De Economist","7":"De Economist","8":"De Economist","9":"De Economist"},"keyword":{"0":"COVID-19Crises measuresPayment diary dataPaymentsTrust in banks","1":"COVID-19 crisisEmploymentYoung workers","2":"","3":"COVID-19Consumer behaviorFood consumptionOnline grocery shopping","4":"CEE countriesCash usageEuropean UnionPanel dataPayment instruments","5":"COVID-19Coronavirus hotspotsEmploymentLockdownWagesWorking hours","6":"Health careLife-cycle modelLongevityMedical innovationOverlapping generationsValue of life","7":"ElderlyInformal careLabor supplyPanel dataSHARE","8":"","9":"Demographic FactorsDeveloping CountriesEconomic FactorsEducational StatusFertilityIncomeLength Of LifeLife ExpectancyModels, TheoreticalMortalityPopulationPopulation DynamicsResearch MethodologyResearch ReportSocioeconomic FactorsSocioeconomic StatusStatistical Regression"},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng","6":"eng","7":"eng","8":"eng","9":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":35540175,"1":35529244,"2":34565808,"3":34253932,"4":34092801,"5":33896962,"6":32624586,"7":30996393,"8":20442794,"9":12310370},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2022,"2":2021,"3":2021,"4":2021,"5":2021,"6":2020,"7":2018,"8":2008,"9":1980}}