{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50},"abstracttext":{"0":"The strength-ductility trade-off is an eminent factor in deciding the mechanical performance of a material with regard to specific applications. The strength-ductility synergy is generally inadequate in as-synthesized high entropy alloys (HEAs); however, it can be tailored owing to its tunable microstructure and phase stability. Thermo-mechanical processing (TMP) allows the microstructure to be tailored to achieve desired strength-ductility combination. The additional attribute is evolution of texture, which also significantly influences the mechanical properties. This review presents a critical insight into the role of TMP to achieve superior strength-ductility symbiosis at room temperature in single-phase (FCC, BCC) and multiphase HEA. The role of overall processing strategy of HEAs encompassing rolling and subsequent annealing in relation to the evolution of microstructure and texture in have been discussed. Recently practiced severe plastic deformation processes have also shown promise in improving the strength-ductility combination. The relevance of these processes in the processing of HEAs has also been analysed. At the end, futuristic approaches have been elaborated to enable efficient as well as hassle-free process towards achieving the proficiency of strength-ductility in HEAs.","1":"Antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) is an alternative route of viral entry in the susceptible host cell. In this process, antiviral antibodies enhance the entry access of virus in the cells via interaction with the complement or Fc receptors leading to the worsening of infection. SARS-CoV-2 variants pose a general concern for the efficacy of neutralizing antibodies that may fail to neutralize infection, raising the possibility of a more severe form of COVID-19. Data from various studies on respiratory viruses raise the speculation that antibodies elicited against SARS-CoV-2 and during COVID-19 recovery could potentially exacerbate the infection through ADE at sub-neutralizing concentrations; this may contribute to disease pathogenesis. It is, therefore, of utmost importance to study the effectiveness of the anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in COVID-19-infected subjects. Theoretically, ADE remains a general concern for the efficacy of antibodies elicited during infection, most notably in convalescent plasma therapy and in response to vaccines where it could be counterproductive.","2":"This article is written on behalf of many colleagues, collaborators, and researchers in the field of complex oxides as well as current and former students and postdocs who continue to enable and undertake cutting-edge research in the field of multiferroics, magnetoelectrics, and the pursuit of electric-field control of magnetism. What I present is something that is extremely exciting from both a fundamental science and applications perspective and has the potential to revolutionize our world, particularly from a sustainability perspective. To realize this potential will require numerous new innovations, both in the fundamental science arena as well as translating these scientific discoveries into real applications. Thus, this article will attempt to bridge the gap between fundamental materials physics and the actual manifestations of the physical concepts into real-life applications. I hope this article will help spur more translational research within the broad materials community.","3":"","4":"","5":"The study of epidemics is useful for not only understanding outbreaks and trying to limit their adverse effects, but also because epidemics are related to social phenomena such as government instability, crime, poverty, and inequality. One approach for studying epidemics is to simulate their spread through populations. In this work, we describe an integrated multi-dimensional approach to epidemic simulation, which encompasses: (1) a theoretical framework for simulation and analysis; (2) synthetic population (digital twin) generation; (3) (social contact) network construction methods from synthetic populations, (4) stylized network construction methods; and (5) simulation of the evolution of a virus or disease through a social network. We describe these aspects and end with a short discussion on simulation results that inform public policy.","6":"","7":"Pangenomes are organized collections of the genomic information from related individuals or groups. Graphical pangenomics is the study of these pangenomes using graphical methods to identify and analyze genes, regions, and mutations of interest to an array of biological questions. This field has seen significant progress in recent years including the development of graph based models that better resolve biological phenomena, and an explosion of new tools for mapping reads, creating graphical genomes, and performing pangenome analysis. In this review, we discuss recent developments in models, algorithms associated with graphical genomes, and comparisons between similar tools. In addition we briefly discuss what these developments may mean for the future of genomics.","8":"","9":"The detection and management of diseases become quite complicated when pathogens contain asymptomatic phenotypes amongst their ranks, as evident during the recent COVID-19 pandemic. Spreading of diseases has been studied extensively under the paradigm of susceptible-infected-recovered-deceased (SIRD) dynamics. Various game-theoretic approaches have also addressed disease spread, many of which consider S , I , R , and D as strategies rather than as states. Remarkably, most studies from the above approaches do not account for the distinction between the symptomatic or asymptomatic aspect of the disease. It is well-known that precautionary measures like washing hands, wearing masks and social distancing significantly mitigate the spread of many contagious diseases. Herein, we consider the adoption of such precautions as strategies and treat S , I , R , and D as states. We also attempt to capture the differences in epidemic spreading arising from symptomatic and asymptomatic diseases on various network topologies. Through extensive computer simulations, we examine that the cost of maintaining precautionary measures as well as the extent of mass testing in a population affects the final fraction of socially responsible individuals. We observe that the lack of mass testing could potentially lead to a pandemic in case of asymptomatic diseases. Network topology also seems to play an important role. We further observe that the final fraction of proactive individuals depends on the initial fraction of both infected as well as proactive individuals. Additionally, edge density can significantly influence the overall outcome. Our findings are in broad agreement with the lessons learnt from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.","10":null,"11":"In simulation-based studies and analyses of epidemics, a major challenge lies in resolving the conflict between fidelity of models and the speed of their simulation. Another related challenge arises in dealing with the large number of what-if scenarios that need to be explored. Here, we describe new computational methods that together provide an approach to dealing with both challenges. A mesoscopic modeling approach is described that strikes a middle ground between macroscopic models based on coupled differential equations and microscopic models built on fine-grained behaviors at the individual entity level. The mesoscopic approach offers the ability to incorporate complex compositions of multiple layers of dynamics even while retaining the potential for aggregate behaviors at varying levels. It also is an excellent match to the accelerator-based architectures of modern computing platforms in which graphical processing units (GPUs) can be exploited for fast simulation via the parallel execution mode of single instruction multiple thread (SIMT). The challenge of simulating a large number of scenarios is addressed via a method of sharing model state and computation across a tree of what-if scenarios that are localized, incremental changes to a large base simulation. A combination of the mesoscopic modeling approach and the incremental what-if scenario tree evaluation has been implemented in the software on modern GPUs. Synthetic simulation scenarios are presented to demonstrate the computational characteristics of our approach. Results from the experiments with large population data, including USA, UK, and India, illustrate the modeling methodology and computational performance on thousands of synthetically generated what-if scenarios. Execution of our implementation scaled to 8192 GPUs of supercomputing platforms demonstrates the ability to rapidly evaluate what-if scenarios several orders of magnitude faster than the conventional methods.","12":"Reducing the interactions between pedestrians in crowded environments can potentially curb the spread of infectious diseases including COVID-19. The mixing of susceptible and infectious individuals in many high-density man-made environments such as waiting queues involves pedestrian movement, which is generally not taken into account in modeling studies of disease dynamics. In this paper, a social force-based pedestrian-dynamics approach is used to evaluate the contacts among proximate pedestrians which are then integrated with a stochastic epidemiological model to estimate the infectious disease spread in a localized outbreak. Practical application of such multiscale models to real-life scenarios can be limited by the uncertainty in human behavior, lack of data during early stage epidemics, and inherent stochasticity in the problem. We parametrize the sources of uncertainty and explore the associated parameter space using a novel high-efficiency parameter sweep algorithm. We show the effectiveness of a low-discrepancy sequence (LDS) parameter sweep in reducing the number of simulations required for effective parameter space exploration in this multiscale problem. The algorithms are applied to a model problem of infectious disease spread in a pedestrian queue similar to that at an airport security check point. We find that utilizing the low-discrepancy sequence-based parameter sweep, even for one component of the multiscale model, reduces the computational requirement by an order of magnitude.","13":"The spread of infectious diseases arises from complex interactions between disease dynamics and human behavior. Predicting the outcome of this complex system is difficult. Consequently, there has been a recent emphasis on comparing the relative risks of different policy options rather than precise predictions. Here, one performs a parameter sweep to generate a large number of possible scenarios for human behavior under different policy options and identifies the relative risks of different decisions regarding policy or design choices. In particular, this approach has been used to identify effective approaches to social distancing in crowded locations, with pedestrian dynamics used to simulate the movement of individuals. This incurs a large computational load, though. The traditional approach of optimizing the implementation of existing mathematical models on parallel systems leads to a moderate improvement in computational performance. In contrast, we show that when dealing with human behavior, we can create a model from scratch that takes computer architectural features into account, yielding much higher performance without requiring complicated parallelization efforts. Our solution is based on two key observations. (i) Models do not capture human behavior as precisely as models for scientific phenomena describe natural processes. Consequently, there is some leeway in designing a model to suit the computational architecture. (ii) The result of a parameter sweep, rather than a single simulation, is the semantically meaningful result. Our model leverages these features to perform efficiently on CPUs and GPUs. We obtain a speedup factor of around 60 using this new model on two Xeon Platinum 8280 CPUs and a factor 125 speedup on 4 NVIDIA Quadro RTX 5000 GPUs over a parallel implementation of the existing model. The careful design of a GPU implementation makes it fast enough for real-time decision-making. We illustrate it on an application to COVID-19.","14":"","15":"Gene flow, the exchange of genetic material between populations is an important biological process, which shapes and maintains biodiversity. The successful movement of individuals between populations depends on multiple factors determined by species biology and the environment. One of the most important factors regulating gene flow is the ability to move, and flight allows individuals to easily move across geographical barriers. Volant vertebrates are found on some of the remotest islands and contribute significantly to the biodiversity and ecosystem. The availability of next-generation sequencing data for non-model animals has substantially improved our understanding of gene flow and its consequences, allowing us to look at fine-scale patterns. However, most of our understanding regarding gene flow comes from the temperate regions and the Neotropics. The lack of studies from species-rich Asia is striking. In this review, we outline the importance of gene flow and the factors affecting gene flow, especially for volant vertebrates. We especially discuss research studies from tropical biomes of South and Southeast Asia, highlight the lacuna in literature and provide an outline for future studies in this species-rich region.","16":"Chytridiomycosis is an emerging infectious disease affecting amphibians globally and it is caused by the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd). Chytridiomycosis has caused dramatic declines and even extinctions in wild amphibian populations in Europe, Australia, Central and North America. Spanning over two and a half decades, extensive research has led to discovery of epizootic and enzootic lineages of this pathogen. However, the Bd-amphibian system had garnered less attention in Asia until recently when an ancestral Bd lineage was identified in the Korean peninsula. Amphibians co-exist with the pathogen in Asia, only sub-lethal effects have been documented on hosts. Such regions are 'coldspots' of infection and are an important resource to understand the dynamics between the enzootic pathogen-Bd and its obligate host-amphibians. Insights into the biology of infection have provided new knowledge on the multi-faceted interaction of Bd in a hyperdiverse Asian amphibian community. We present the findings and highlight the knowledge gap that exists, and propose the ways to bridge them. We emphasize that chytridiomycosis in Asia is an important wildlife disease and it needs focussed research, as it is a dynamic front of pathogen diversity and virulence.","17":"","18":"Some of the key questions of interest during the COVID-19 pandemic (and all outbreaks) include: where did the disease start, how is it spreading, who are at risk, and how to control the spread. There are a large number of complex factors driving the spread of pandemics, and, as a result, multiple modeling techniques play an increasingly important role in shaping public policy and decision-making. As different countries and regions go through phases of the pandemic, the questions and data availability also change. Especially of interest is aligning model development and data collection to support response efforts at each stage of the pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has been unprecedented in terms of real-time collection and dissemination of a number of diverse datasets, ranging from disease outcomes, to mobility, behaviors, and socio-economic factors. The data sets have been critical from the perspective of disease modeling and analytics to support policymakers in real time. In this overview article, we survey the data landscape around COVID-19, with a focus on how such datasets have aided modeling and response through different stages so far in the pandemic. We also discuss some of the current challenges and the needs that will arise as we plan our way out of the pandemic.","19":"We highlight the usefulness of city-scale agent-based simulators in studying various non-pharmaceutical interventions to manage an evolving pandemic. We ground our studies in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and demonstrate the power of the simulator via several exploratory case studies in two metropolises, Bengaluru and Mumbai. Such tools may in time become a common-place item in the tool kit of the administrative authorities of large cities.","20":"The COVID-19 pandemic is imposing enormous global challenges in managing the spread of the virus. A key pillar to mitigation is contact tracing, which complements testing and isolation. Digital apps for contact tracing using Bluetooth technology available in smartphones have gained prevalence globally. In this article, we discuss various capabilities of such digital contact tracing, and its implication on community safety and individual privacy, among others. We further describe the GoCoronaGo institutional contact tracing app that we have developed, and the conscious and sometimes contrarian design choices we have made. We offer a detailed overview of the app, backend platform and analytics, and our early experiences with deploying the app to over 1000 users within the Indian Institute of Science campus in Bangalore. We also highlight research opportunities and open challenges for digital contact tracing and analytics over temporal networks constructed from them.","21":null,"22":null,"23":"","24":"The digitization of data including health data (referred to as Internet of Things-IoT in Healthcare) and its usage in delivery of healthcare has been growing rapidly across the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has been a pivot for exponential growth of IoT in healthcare. Several rapidly evolving technologies are converging to influence the trajectory of IoT in healthcare. There are several challenges in technology development, healthcare delivery as well as issues related to privacy of data, digital divide, role of government and other stakeholders, behaviour and adoption by medical doctors and hospitals. The review article provides an overview of the emergence of IoT in healthcare globally, the intricacies of different factors impinging its current status and recommends policy intervention for an optimal roadmap of IoT in healthcare in the Indian context.","25":"COVID-19 pandemic represents an unprecedented global health crisis in the last 100 years. Its economic, social and health impact continues to grow and is likely to end up as one of the worst global disasters since the 1918 pandemic and the World Wars. Mathematical models have played an important role in the ongoing crisis; they have been used to inform public policies and have been instrumental in many of the social distancing measures that were instituted worldwide. In this article, we review some of the important mathematical models used to support the ongoing planning and response efforts. These models differ in their use, their mathematical form and their scope.","26":"The Internet, which has spanned several networks in a broad range of domains, is having a significant impact on every aspect of our lives. The next generation of networks will utilize a wide variety of resources with significant sensing capabilities. Such networks will extend beyond physically linked computers to include multimodal-information from biological, cognitive, semantic, and social networks. This paradigm shift will involve symbiotic networks of smart medical devices, and smart phones or mobile personal computing and communication devices. These devices-and the network-will be constantly sensing, monitoring, and interpreting the environment; this is sometimes referred to as the Internet of Things (IoT). We are also witnessing considerable interest in the \"Omics\" paradigm, which can be viewed as the study of a domain in a massive scale, at different levels of abstraction, in an integrative manner. The IoT revolution, combined with the Omics revolution (genomics and socio-omics or social networks) and artificial intelligence resurgence, will have significant implications for the way health care is delivered in the United States. After discussing a vision for health care in the future, we introduce the P9 health care concept, followed by a discussion of a framework for smart health care. Then, we present a case study and research directions, followed by examples of ongoing work at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).","27":"The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 is often used as a proxy for the actual number of ground truth COVID-19-infected cases in both public discourse and policy making. However, the number of confirmed cases depends on the testing policy, and it is important to understand how the number of positive cases obtained using different testing policies reveals the unknown ground truth. We develop an agent-based simulation framework in Python that can simulate various testing policies as well as interventions such as lockdown based on them. The interaction between the agents can take into account various communities and mobility patterns. A distinguishing feature of our framework is the presence of another 'flu'-like illness with symptoms similar to COVID-19, that allows us to model the noise in selecting the pool of patients to be tested. We instantiate our model for the city of Bengaluru in India, using census data to distribute agents geographically, and traffic flow mobility data to model long-distance interactions and mixing. We use the simulation framework to compare the performance of three testing policies: Random Symptomatic Testing (RST), Contact Tracing (CT), and a new Location-Based Testing policy (LBT). We observe that if a sufficient fraction of symptomatic patients come out for testing, then RST can capture the ground truth quite closely even with very few daily tests. However, CT consistently captures more positive cases. Interestingly, our new LBT, which is operationally less intensive than CT, gives performance that is comparable with CT. In another direction, we compare the efficacy of these three testing policies in enabling lockdown, and observe that CT flattens the ground truth curve maximally, followed closely by LBT, and significantly better than RST.","28":"Pondering on pandemics and the promise of purification from the plethora of problems that it has spawned, the paper builds on a game-theoretic model of host-pathogen interaction, and... moves beyond. It highlights how quickly this 'wicked' problem has led to deceptive Nash equilibria of certain information-asymmetric games as well as their sequels of more complex intertwined games at human scale but without an exit strategy in sight. In the absence of clarity (e.g., access to complete information) and yet facing a capricious and complex conspirator, we overview an exemplary solution, created by RxCovea, and examine how it might help.","29":"Health Heatmap of India is an open data platform built for bringing together data from diverse sources and facilitating visualization, analysis, and insight building from such data. In this paper, we describe the context and need for such an open data platform and describe the technical aspects of building it. The beta site of the portal is available at https:\/\/healthheatmapindia.org.","30":"As SARS-CoV-2 continues to propagate around the world, it is becoming increasingly important to scale up testing. This is necessary both at the individual level, to inform diagnosis, treatment and contract tracing, as well as at the population level to inform policies to control spread of the infection. The gold-standard RT-qPCR test for the virus is relatively expensive and takes time, so combining multiple samples into \"pools\" that are tested together has emerged as a useful way to test many individuals with less than one test per person. Here, we describe the basic idea behind pooling of samples and different methods for reconstructing the result for each individual from the test of pooled samples. The methods range from simple pooling, where each pool is disjoint from the other, to more complex combinatorial pooling where each sample is split into multiple pools and each pool has a specified combination of samples. We describe efforts to validate these testing methods clinically and the potential advantages of the combinatorial pooling method named Tapestry Pooling that relies on compressed sensing techniques.","31":null,"32":"","33":"Scientists all over the world are moving toward building database systems based on the One Health concept to prevent and manage outbreaks of zoonotic diseases. An appreciation of the process of discovery with incomplete information and a recognition of the role of observations gathered painstakingly by scientists in the field shows that simple databases will not be sufficient to build causal models of the complex relationships between human health and ecosystems. Rather, it is important also to build knowledge bases which complement databases using non-monotonic logic based artificial intelligence techniques, so that causal models can be improved as new, and sometimes contradictory, information is found from field studies.","34":"The disease caused by SARS-CoV-2-CoVID-19-is a global pandemic that has brought severe changes worldwide. Approximately 80% of the infected patients are largely asymptomatic or have mild symptoms such as fever or cough, while rest of the patients display varying degrees of severity of symptoms, with an average mortality rate of 3-4%. Severe symptoms such as pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome may be caused by tissue damage, which is mostly due to aggravated and unresolved innate and adaptive immune response, often resulting from a cytokine storm. Here, we discuss how an intricate interplay among infected cells and cells of innate and adaptive immune system can lead to such diverse clinicopathological outcomes. Particularly, we discuss how the emergent nonlinear dynamics of interaction among the components of adaptive and immune system components and virally infected cells can drive different disease severity. Such minimalistic yet rigorous mathematical modeling approaches are helpful in explaining how various co-morbidity risk factors, such as age and obesity, can aggravate the severity of CoVID-19 in patients. Furthermore, such approaches can elucidate how a fine-tuned balance of infected cell killing and resolution of inflammation can lead to infection clearance, while disruptions can drive different severe phenotypes. These results can help further in a rational selection of drug combinations that can effectively balance viral clearance and minimize tissue damage.","35":"","36":"This short paper describes a web resource-the NIST CORD-19 Web Resource-for community explorations of the COVID-19 Open Research Dataset (CORD-19). The tools for exploration in the web resource make use of the NIST-developed Root- and Rule-based method, which exploits underlying linguistic structures to create terms that represent phrases in a corpus. The method allows for auto-suggesting-related terms to discover terms to refine the search of a COVID-19 heterogenous document base. The method also produces taxonomic structures in the target domain as well as providing semantic information about the relationships between terms. This term structure can serve as a basis for creating topic modeling and trend analysis tools. In this paper, we describe use of a novel search engine to demonstrate some of the capabilities above.","37":"The coronavirus crisis has seen an unprecedented response from India and the world. If the viral outbreak has exposed gross inadequacies in the healthcare systems of nations both rich and poor, it has stirred a digital healthcare revolution that has been building since the past decade. We have seen how this new era of digital health evolved over the years since healthcare started getting increasingly unaffordable in the western countries forcing a relook in their strategies to explosion of digital innovations in mobile telephony and applications, internet, wearable devices, artificial intelligence, robotics, big data and genomics. The single biggest trigger for the digital shift has indeed been the COVID-19 pandemic this year, more so in India with astonishing response from the private enterprise and the proactive push from the government so evident. However, the full potential of this digital revolution cannot be realized as long as core structural reforms in public healthcare do not take place along with significant boost in digital infrastructure. The way digital technologies have helped facilitate strategy and response to the global pandemic and with predictions of more zoonotic outbreaks impending in the coming years, it has become imperative for the world to increasingly adopt and integrate digital innovations to make healthcare more accessible, interconnected and affordable.","38":"The Covid-19 pandemic has raised awareness of future biological threats, how we can prepare and develop mitigation strategies. Technology has allowed us to quickly identify the pathogen, map its evolution in real time and develop scores of vaccines within months. This review looks at disease threats from a perspective of human development, and the futuristic technologies that may help in the fight. Most importantly, cooperation across political and ideological boundaries would be needed in a highly inter-connected world. A new disease emerging anywhere is a threat everywhere.","39":"","40":"","41":"Tumors exhibit genetic and phenotypic diversity leading to intra-tumor heterogeneity (ITH). Further complex ecosystem (stromal and immune cells) of tumors contributes into the ITH. This ITH allows tumors to overcome various selection pressures such as anti-cancer therapies and metastasis at distant organs. Single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) has provided unprecedented insights into ITH and its implications in drug resistance and metastasis. As scRNA-seq technology grows and provides many new findings, new tools on different programming platforms are frequently generated. Here, we aim to provide a framework and guidelines for new entrants into the field of scRNA-seq. In this review, we discuss the current state-of-art of scRNA-seq analysis step-by-step including filtering, normalization and analysis. First, we discuss the brief history of experimental methods, followed by data processing and implications in precision oncology.","42":"Massive multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems are a main enabler of the excessive throughput requirements in 5G and future generation wireless networks as they can serve many users simultaneously with high spectral and energy efficiency. To achieve this massive MIMO systems require accurate and timely channel state information (CSI), which is acquired by a training process that involves pilot transmission, CSI estimation, and feedback. This training process incurs a training overhead, which scales with the number of antennas, users, and subcarriers. Reducing the training overhead in massive MIMO systems has been a major topic of research since the emergence of the concept. Recently, deep learning (DL)-based approaches have been proposed and shown to provide significant reduction in the CSI acquisition and feedback overhead in massive MIMO systems compared to traditional techniques. In this paper, we present an overview of the state-of-the-art DL architectures and algorithms used for CSI acquisition and feedback, and provide further research directions.","43":"","44":"Attention is a process of selection that allows us to intelligently navigate the abundance of information in our world. Attention can be either directed voluntarily based on internal goals-\"top-down\" or goal-directed attention-or captured automatically, by salient stimuli-\"bottom-up\" or stimulus-driven attention. Do these two modes of attention control arise from same or different brain circuits? Do they share similar or distinct neural mechanisms? In this review, we explore this dichotomy between the neural bases of top-down and bottom-up attention control, with a special emphasis on insights gained from non-invasive neurostimulation techniques, specifically, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). TMS enables spatially focal and temporally precise manipulation of brain activity. We explore a significant literature devoted to investigating the role of fronto-parietal brain regions in top-down and bottom-up attention with TMS, and highlight key areas of convergence and debate. We also discuss recent advances in combinatorial paradigms that combine TMS with other imaging modalities, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging or electroencephalography. These paradigms are beginning to bridge essential gaps in our understanding of the neural pathways by which TMS affects behavior, and will prove invaluable for unraveling mechanisms of attention control, both in health and in disease.","45":"The study of networks has been evolving because of its applications in diverse fields. Many complex systems involve multiple types of interactions and such systems are better modeled as multilayer networks.The question \"which are the most (or least) important nodes in a given network?\", has gained substantial attention in the network science community. The importance of a node is known as centrality and there are multiple ways to define it. Extending the centrality measure to multilayer networks is challenging since the relative contribution of intra-layer edges vs. that of inter-layer edges to multilayer centrality is not straight-forward. With the growing applications of multilayer networks, several attempts have been made to define centrality in multilayer networks in recent years. There are different ways of tuning the inter-layer couplings which may lead to different classes of centrality measures. In this article, we provide an overview of the recent works related to centrality in multilayer networks with a focus on key use cases and implications of the type of inter-layer coupling on centrality and subsequent uses of the different centrality measures. We discuss the effect of three popular interlayer coupling methods viz. diagonal coupling between adjacent layers, diagonal coupling and cross coupling. We hope the colloquial tone of this article would make it a pleasant read for understanding the theoretical as well as experimental aspects of the work.","46":"Cell membranes, despite providing a barrier to protect intracellular constituents, require selective gating for influx of important metabolites including ions, sugars, amino acids, neurotransmitters and efflux of toxins and metabolic end-products. The machinery involved in carrying out this gating process comprises of integral membrane proteins that use ionic electrochemical gradients or ATP hydrolysis, to drive concentrative uptake or efflux. The mechanism through which ion-coupled transporters function is referred to as alternating-access. In the recent past, discrete modes of alternating-access have been described with the elucidation of new transporter structures and their snapshots in altered conformational states. Despite X-ray structures being the primary sources of mechanistic information, other biophysical methods provide information related to the structural dynamics of these transporters. Methods including EPR and smFRET, have extensively helped validate or clarify ion-coupled transport mechanisms, in a near-native environment. This review seeks to highlight the mechanistic details of ion-coupled transport and delve into the biophysical tools and methods that help in understanding these fascinating molecules.","47":"Sensory systems adapt to environmental change. It has been argued that adaptation should have the effect of optimizing sensitivity to the new environment. Here we consider a framework in which this premise is made concrete using an economic normative theory of visual motion perception. In this framework, visual systems adapt to the environment by reallocating their limited neural resources. The allocation is optimal when uncertainties about different aspects of stimulation are balanced. This theory makes predictions about visual sensitivity as a function of environmental statistics. Adaptive optimization of the visual system should be manifested as a change in sensitivity for an observer and for the underlying motion-sensitive neurons. We review evidence supporting these predictions and examine effects of adaptation on the neuronal representation of visual motion.","48":"Animals depend on navigation to find food, water, mate(s), shelter, etc. Different species use diverse strategies that utilise forms of motion- and location-related information derived from the environment to navigate to their goals and back. We start by describing behavioural studies undertaken to unearth different strategies used in navigation. Then we move on to outline what we know about the brain area most associated with spatial navigation, namely the hippocampal formation. While doing so, we first briefly explain the anatomical connections in the area and then proceed to describe the neural correlates that are considered to play a role in navigation. We conclude by looking at how the strategies might interact and complement each other in certain contexts.","49":"For almost all cells, nutrient availability, from glucose to amino acids, dictates their growth or developmental programs. This nutrient availability is closely coupled to the overall intracellular metabolic state of the cell. Therefore, cells have evolved diverse, robust and versatile modules to sense intracellular metabolic states, activate signaling outputs and regulate outcomes to these states. Yet, signaling and metabolism have been viewed as important but separate. This short review attempts to position aspects of intracellular signaling from a metabolic perspective, highlighting how conserved, core principles of metabolic sensing and signaling can emerge from an understanding of metabolic regulation. I briefly explain the nature of metabolic sensors, using the example of the AMP activated protein kinase (AMPK) as an \"energy sensing\" hub. Subsequently, I explore how specific central metabolites, particularly acetyl-CoA, but also S -adenosyl methionine and SAICAR, can act as signaling molecules. I extensively illustrate the nature of a metabolic signaling hub using the specific example of the Target of Rapamycin Complex 1 (TORC1), and amino acid sensing. A highlight is the emergence of the lysosome\/vacuole as a metabolic and signaling hub. Finally, the need to expand our understanding of the intracellular dynamics (in concentration and localization) of several metabolites, and their signaling hubs is emphasized.","50":null},"articletitle":{"0":"Strength-Ductility Synergy in High Entropy Alloys by Tuning the Thermo-Mechanical Process Parameters: A Comprehensive Review.","1":"Neutralizing Antibodies and Antibody-Dependent Enhancement in COVID-19: A Perspective.","2":"Materials for a Sustainable Microelectronics Future: Electric Field Control of Magnetism with Multiferroics.","3":"Editor's Desk.","4":"A Whirlwind Tour of Complex Systems.","5":"Agent-Based Computational Epidemiological Modeling.","6":"Guest Editorial: Special Issue on Emerging Trends in Modeling and Analysis of Complex Systems.","7":"Methods and Developments in Graphical Pangenomics.","8":"Editor's Desk.","9":"Mass Testing and Proactiveness Affect Epidemic Spreading.","10":"Dynamical Systems: From Classical Mechanics and Astronomy to Modern Methods.","11":"Mesoscopic Modeling and Rapid Simulation of Incremental Changes in Epidemic Scenarios on GPUs: Fast What-If Analyses of Localized and Dynamic Effects.","12":"Parameter Space Exploration in Pedestrian Queue Design to Mitigate Infectious Disease Spread.","13":"Architecture-Aware Modeling of Pedestrian Dynamics.","14":"At the crossroads: molecular ecology and wildlife conservation.","15":"Gene Flow in Volant Vertebrates: Species Biology, Ecology and Climate Change.","16":"Chytridiomycosis in Asian Amphibians, a Global Resource for Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd) Research.","17":"Editor's Desk.","18":"Data-Driven Modeling for Different Stages of Pandemic Response.","19":"City-Scale Agent-Based Simulators for the Study of Non-pharmaceutical Interventions in the Context of the COVID-19 Epidemic: IISc-TIFR COVID-19 City-Scale Simulation Team.","20":"GoCoronaGo: Privacy Respecting Contact Tracing for COVID-19 Management.","21":"The Privacy Implications of Using Data Technologies in a Pandemic.","22":"Suppress, and Not Just Flatten: Strategies for Rapid Suppression of COVID19 Transmission in Small World Communities.","23":"Technology, Population Health, and Human Wellness.","24":"The Impact of IoT in Healthcare: Global Technological Change &amp; The Roadmap to a Networked Architecture in India.","25":"Mathematical Models for COVID-19 Pandemic: A Comparative Analysis.","26":"Transforming Health Care through Digital Revolutions.","27":"How Reliable are Test Numbers for Revealing the COVID-19 Ground Truth and Applying Interventions?","28":null,"29":"Health Heatmap of India: An Open Data Platform.","30":"Pooling Samples to Increase SARS-CoV-2 Testing.","31":null,"32":"COVID Study Circle: An Experiment in Forming a Digital Collective During a Pandemic.","33":"Artificial Intelligence and One Health: Knowledge Bases for Causal Modeling.","34":"The Good, The Bad and The Ugly: A Mathematical Model Investigates the Differing Outcomes Among CoVID-19 Patients.","35":"Exponential Technologies and the Perfect Storm for Digital Health.","36":"A Web Resource for Exploring the CORD-19 Dataset Using Root- and Rule-Based Phrases.","37":"Health is the Motive and Digital is the Instrument.","38":"Global Biological Threats: Novel Tools and Multi-Disciplinary Approaches to Sustainable Development.","39":"Editor's Desk.","40":"Editorial Desk.","41":"Single-Cell RNA Sequencing for Precision Oncology: Current State-of-Art.","42":"Deep Learning for Massive MIMO Channel State Acquisition and Feedback.","43":"Editor's Desk.","44":"Unraveling Causal Mechanisms of Top-Down and Bottom-Up Visuospatial Attention with Non-invasive Brain Stimulation.","45":"Effect of Inter-layer Coupling on Multilayer Network Centrality Measures.","46":"Transporters through the looking glass. An insight into the mechanisms of ion-coupled transport and methods that help reveal them.","47":"Adaptive Optimization of Visual Sensitivity.","48":"Navigational Strategies and Their Neural Correlates.","49":"Conceptualizing Eukaryotic Metabolic Sensing and Signaling.","50":"Inositol Pyrophosphates: Energetic, Omnipresent and Versatile Signalling Molecules."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","1":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","2":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","3":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","4":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","5":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","6":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","7":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","8":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","9":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","10":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","11":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","12":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","13":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","14":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","15":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","16":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","17":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","18":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","19":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","20":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","21":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","22":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","23":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","24":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","25":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","26":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","27":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","28":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","29":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","30":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","31":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","32":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","33":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","34":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","35":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","36":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","37":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","38":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","39":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","40":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","41":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","42":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","43":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","44":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","45":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","46":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","47":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","48":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","49":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science","50":"Journal of the Indian Institute of Science"},"keyword":{"0":null,"1":"ADEARDSERDEnhancementNeutralizing antibodiesSARS-CoV-2","2":null,"3":"","4":"","5":"Agent-based simulationComputational epidemiologyData-driven social network generationDiscrete dynamical systemsHigh performance computingLarge-scale stylized network constructionSynthetic populations","6":"","7":"Genome assemblyGraph genomesGraphical pangenomicsMultiple sequence alignmentPangenomics","8":"","9":"Asymptomatic diseasesComplex networksEpidemic spreadingEvolutionary game theory","10":"EvolutionStochastic dynamicsTopological dynamics","11":null,"12":"Infection SpreadParameter SweepPedestrian Dynamics","13":"Architecture aware modelingGPUPedestrian dynamics","14":"","15":"BatsBirdsGene flowSouth AsiaSoutheast Asia;Volant vertebrates","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"BluetoothCOVIDDigital contact tracingMobile appsTemporal networks","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"Big dataDigital healthcareHealthIndiaIoT in healthcareTelemedicine","25":"","26":"Cyber-physical systemsHealth information technologyInternet of ThingsInteroperabilityMedical devicesModelingOntologyP9 medicineSocial networks","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"Auto-suggest searchCORD-19 datasetRoot- and rule-based method","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"Channel state informationDeep learningMassive MIMO","43":"","44":"","45":"Betweenness centralityEigenvector centralityInterconnected networksMultilayer networksMultiplex networksPageRank centrality","46":"Secondary active transportalternating-accessantiportion-coupled transportsymportuniport","47":"","48":"HippocampusLandmarksLateral entorhinal cortex (LEC)Medial entorhinal cortex (MEC)Path integrationSpatial navigation","49":"Acetyl-CoAAmino acidsLysosomeMetabolic signalingS-adenosyl methionineTORC1VacuolemTORC1","50":"5-Diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (IP7)Bis-diphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate (IP8)IP6 kinase (IP6K)Inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6)Inositol phosphate"},"pmid":{"0":35345876,"1":35136306,"2":35035127,"3":34776658,"4":34642556,"5":34629766,"6":34629765,"7":34456520,"8":34426720,"9":34393389,"10":34376929,"11":34366586,"12":34366585,"13":34366584,"14":34248302,"15":34155425,"16":34092943,"17":33487890,"18":33223629,"19":33199946,"20":33199945,"21":33191991,"22":33191990,"23":33169052,"24":33162693,"25":33144763,"26":33132546,"27":33110298,"28":33106735,"29":33100615,"30":33100614,"31":33078049,"32":33046951,"33":33046950,"34":33041543,"35":33020687,"36":33013023,"37":33013022,"38":33013021,"39":32982090,"40":32837039,"41":32837038,"42":32624647,"43":32292251,"44":31231154,"45":34282354,"46":30686879,"47":30008522,"48":29657367,"49":29176927,"50":32214696},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2022,"2":2022,"3":2021,"4":2021,"5":2021,"6":2021,"7":2021,"8":2021,"9":2021,"10":2021,"11":2021,"12":2021,"13":2021,"14":2021,"15":2021,"16":2021,"17":2021,"18":2020,"19":2020,"20":2020,"21":2020,"22":2020,"23":2020,"24":2020,"25":2020,"26":2020,"27":2020,"28":2020,"29":2020,"30":2020,"31":2020,"32":2020,"33":2020,"34":2020,"35":2020,"36":2020,"37":2020,"38":2020,"39":2020,"40":2020,"41":2020,"42":2020,"43":2020,"44":2019,"45":2019,"46":2018,"47":2017,"48":2017,"49":2017,"50":2017}}