{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8},"abstracttext":{"0":"Salient segmentation is a critical step in biomedical image analysis, aiming to cut out regions that are most interesting to humans. Recently, supervised methods have achieved promising results in biomedical areas, but they depend on annotated training data sets, which requires labor and proficiency in related background knowledge. In contrast, unsupervised learning makes data-driven decisions by obtaining insights directly from the data themselves. In this paper, we propose a completely unsupervised self-aware network based on pre-training and attentional backpropagation for biomedical salient segmentation, named as PUB-SalNet. Firstly, we aggregate a new biomedical data set from several simulated Cellular Electron Cryo-Tomography (CECT) data sets featuring rich salient objects, different SNR settings and various resolutions, which is called SalSeg-CECT. Based on the SalSeg-CECT data set, we then pre-train a model specially designed for biomedical tasks as a backbone module to initialize network parameters. Next, we present a U-SalNet network to learn to selectively attend to salient objects. It includes two types of attention modules to facilitate learning saliency through global contrast and local similarity. Lastly, we jointly refine the salient regions together with feature representations from U-SalNet, with the parameters updated by self-aware attentional backpropagation. We apply PUB-SalNet for analysis of 2D simulated and real images and achieve state-of-the-art performance on simulated biomedical data sets. Furthermore, our proposed PUB-SalNet can be easily extended to 3D images. The experimental results on the 2d and 3d data sets also demonstrate the generalization ability and robustness of our method.","1":null,"2":"With the rapid increase in new fNIRS users employing commercial software, there is a concern that many studies are biased by suboptimal processing methods. The purpose of this study is to provide a visual reference showing the effects of different processing methods, to help inform researchers in setting up and evaluating a processing pipeline. We show the significant impact of pre- and post-processing choices and stress again how important it is to combine data from both hemoglobin species in order to make accurate inferences about the activation site.","3":"We introduce the Convex Hull of Admissible Modularity Partitions (CHAMP) algorithm to prune and prioritize different network community structures identified across multiple runs of possibly various computational heuristics. Given a set of partitions, CHAMP identifies the domain of modularity optimization for each partition-i.e., the parameter-space domain where it has the largest modularity relative to the input set-discarding partitions with empty domains to obtain the subset of partitions that are \"admissible\" candidate community structures that remain potentially optimal over indicated parameter domains. Importantly, CHAMP can be used for multi-dimensional parameter spaces, such as those for multilayer networks where one includes a resolution parameter and interlayer coupling. Using the results from CHAMP, a user can more appropriately select robust community structures by observing the sizes of domains of optimization and the pairwise comparisons between partitions in the admissible subset. We demonstrate the utility of CHAMP with several example networks. In these examples, CHAMP focuses attention onto pruned subsets of admissible partitions that are 20-to-1785 times smaller than the sets of unique partitions obtained by community detection heuristics that were input into CHAMP.","4":"We develop an efficient multicore algorithm, PMS6MC, for the (l, d)-motif discovery problem in which we are to find all strings of length l that appear in every string of a given set of strings with at most d mismatches. PMS6MC is based on PMS6, which is currently the fastest single-core algorithm for motif discovery in large instances. The speedup, relative to PMS6, attained by our multicore algorithm ranges from a high of 6.62 for the (17,6) challenging instances to a low of 2.75 for the (13,4) challenging instances on an Intel 6-core system. We estimate that PMS6MC is 2 to 4 times faster than other parallel algorithms for motif search on large instances.","5":null,"6":"As the rapid advance of digital imaging technologies, the content-based image retrieval (CBIR) has became one of the most vivid research areas in computer vision. In the last several years, developing computer-aided detection and\/or diagnosis (CAD) schemes that use CBIR to search for the clinically relevant and visually similar medical images (or regions) depicting suspicious lesions has also been attracting research interest. CBIR-based CAD schemes have potential to provide radiologists with \"visual aid\" and increase their confidence in accepting CAD-cued results in the decision making. The CAD performance and reliability depends on a number of factors including the optimization of lesion segmentation, feature selection, reference database size, computational efficiency, and relationship between the clinical relevance and visual similarity of the CAD results. By presenting and comparing a number of approaches commonly used in previous studies, this article identifies and discusses the optimal approaches in developing CBIR-based CAD schemes and assessing their performance. Although preliminary studies have suggested that using CBIR-based CAD schemes might improve radiologists' performance and\/or increase their confidence in the decision making, this technology is still in the early development stage. Much research work is needed before the CBIR-based CAD schemes can be accepted in the clinical practice.","7":null,"8":"Sensors have been widely used for disease diagnosis, environmental quality monitoring, food quality control, industrial process analysis and control, and other related fields. As a key tool for sensor data analysis, machine learning is becoming a core part of novel sensor design. Dividing a complete machine learning process into three steps: data pre-treatment, feature extraction and dimension reduction, and system modeling, this paper provides a review of the methods that are widely used for each step. For each method, the principles and the key issues that affect modeling results are discussed. After reviewing the potential problems in machine learning processes, this paper gives a summary of current algorithms in this field and provides some feasible directions for future studies."},"articletitle":{"0":"PUB-SalNet: A Pre-trained Unsupervised Self-Aware Backpropagation Network for Biomedical Salient Segmentation.","1":"On Finding and Enumerating Maximal and Maximum k-Partite Cliques in k-Partite Graphs.","2":"Automated Processing of fNIRS Data-A Visual Guide to the Pitfalls and Consequences.","3":"Post-Processing Partitions to Identify Domains of Modularity Optimization.","4":"PMS6MC: A Multicore Algorithm for Motif Discovery.","5":"Successive Standardization of Rectangular Arrays.","6":"Computer-Aided Diagnosis in Mammography Using Content-based Image Retrieval Approaches: Current Status and Future Perspectives.","7":"Exhaustive Enumeration of Kinetic Model Topologies for the Analysis of Time-Resolved RNA Folding.","8":"Machine Learning: A Crucial Tool for Sensor Design."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Algorithms","1":"Algorithms","2":"Algorithms","3":"Algorithms","4":"Algorithms","5":"Algorithms","6":"Algorithms","7":"Algorithms","8":"Algorithms"},"keyword":{"0":"Biomedical image processingPre-trained methodsSaliency segmentationUnsupervised learning","1":"dense subgraph enumerationgraph algorithmsmaximal cliquesmultipartite graphs","2":"GLMLF de-noisingchannel exclusionfunctional Near-Infrared Spectroscopymotion correctionpost-processingpre-processingsingle subject","3":"community detectionmodularitymultilayer networksnetworksresolution parameter","4":"Planted motif searchmulti-core algorithmsparallel string algorithms","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":""},"pmid":{"0":34567437,"1":31448059,"2":30906511,"3":29046743,"4":25309700,"5":23355926,"6":20305801,"7":19865589,"8":20191110},"pubdate_year":{"0":2020,"1":2019,"2":2018,"3":2017,"4":2013,"5":2012,"6":2009,"7":2009,"8":2008}}