{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36},"abstracttext":{"0":null,"1":"A crucial decision in designing a spatial sample for soil survey is the number of sampling locations required to answer, with sufficient accuracy and precision, the questions posed by decision makers at different levels of geographic aggregation. In the Indian Soil Health Card (SHC) scheme, many thousands of locations are sampled per district. In this paper the SHC data are used to estimate the mean of a soil property within a defined study area, e.g., a district, or the areal fraction of the study area where some condition is satisfied, e.g., exceedence of a critical level. The central question is whether this large sample size is needed for this aim. The sample size required for a given maximum length of a confidence interval can be computed with formulas from classical sampling theory, using a prior estimate of the variance of the property of interest within the study area. Similarly, for the areal fraction a prior estimate of this fraction is required. In practice we are uncertain about these prior estimates, and our uncertainty is not accounted for in classical sample size determination (SSD). This deficiency can be overcome with a Bayesian approach, in which the prior estimate of the variance or areal fraction is replaced by a prior distribution. Once new data from the sample are available, this prior distribution is updated to a posterior distribution using Bayes' rule. The apparent problem with a Bayesian approach prior to a sampling campaign is that the data are not yet available. This dilemma can be solved by computing, for a given sample size, the predictive distribution of the data, given a prior distribution on the population and design parameter. Thus we do not have a single vector with data values, but a finite or infinite set of possible data vectors. As a consequence, we have as many posterior distribution functions as we have data vectors. This leads to a probability distribution of lengths or coverages of Bayesian credible intervals, from which various criteria for SSD can be derived. Besides the fully Bayesian approach, a mixed Bayesian-likelihood approach for SSD is available. This is of interest when, after the data have been collected, we prefer to estimate the mean from these data only, using the frequentist approach, ignoring the prior distribution. The fully Bayesian and mixed Bayesian-likelihood approach are illustrated for estimating the mean of log-transformed Zn and the areal fraction with Zn-deficiency, defined as Zn concentration &lt;0.9 mg kg -1, in the thirteen districts of Andhra Pradesh state. The SHC data from 2015-2017 are used to derive prior distributions. For all districts the Bayesian and mixed Bayesian-likelihood sample sizes are much smaller than the current sample sizes. The hyperparameters of the prior distributions have a strong effect on the sample sizes. We discuss methods to deal with this. Even at the mandal (sub-district) level the sample size can almost always be reduced substantially. Clearly SHC over-sampled, and here we show how to reduce the effort while still providing information required for decision-making. R scripts for SSD are provided as supplementary material.","2":"Rice is the primary crop in Bangladesh and rice yield is diminished due to the buildup of arsenic (As) in soil from irrigation with high-As groundwater. Soil testing with an inexpensive kit could help farmers target high-As soil for mitigation or decide to switch to a different crop that is less sensitive to As in soil. A total of 3,240 field kit measurements of As in 0.5 g of fresh soil added to 50 mL of water were compared with total soil As concentrations measured on oven-dried homogenized soil by X-ray fluorescence (XRF). For sets of 12 soil samples collected within a series of rice fields, the average of kit As measurements was a linear function of the average of XRF measurements (r2=0.69). Taking into account that the kit overestimates water As concentrations by about a factor of two, the relationship suggests that about a quarter of the As in paddy soil is released in the kit's reaction vessel. Using the relationship and considering XRF measurements as the reference, the 12-sample average determined correctly whether soil As was above or below a 30 mg\/kg threshold in 86% of cases where soil As was above the threshold and in 79% of cases where soil As was below the threshold. We also used a Bayesian approach using 12 kit measurements to estimate the probability that soil As was above a given threshold indicated by XRF measurements. The Bayesian approach is theoretically optimal but was only slightly more accurate than the linear regression. These results show that rice farmers can identify high-As portions of their fields for mitigation using a dozen field kit measurements on fresh soil and base their decisions on this information.","3":null,"4":"Soil mineral compositions are often complex and spatially diverse, with each mineral exhibiting characteristic chemical properties that determine the intrinsic total concentration of soil nutrients and their phyto-availability. Defining soil mineral-nutrient relationships is therefore important for understanding the inherent fertility of soils for sustainable nutrient management, and data-driven approaches such as cluster analysis allow for these relations to be assessed in new detail. Here the fuzzy-c-means clustering algorithm was applied to an X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) dataset of 935 soils from sub-Saharan Africa, with each diffractogram representing a digital signature of a soil's mineralogy. Nine mineralogically distinct clusters were objectively selected from the soil mineralogy continuum by retaining samples exceeding the 75 %  quantile of the membership coefficients in each cluster, yielding a dataset of 239 soils. As such, samples within each cluster represented mineralogically similar soils from different agro-ecological environments of sub-Saharan Africa. Mineral quantification based on the mean diffractogram of each cluster illustrated substantial mineralogical diversity between the nine groups with respect to quartz, K-feldspar, plagioclase, Fe\/Al\/Ti-(hydr)oxides, phyllosilicates (1:1 and 2:1), ferromagnesians, and calcite. Mineral-nutrient relationships were defined using the clustered XRPD patterns and corresponding measurements of total and\/or extractable (Mehlich-3) nutrient concentrations (B, Mg, K, Ca, Mn, Fe, Ni, Cu and Zn) in combination with log-ratio compositional data analysis. Fe\/Al\/Ti\/Mn-(hydr)oxides and feldspars were found to be the primary control of total nutrient concentrations, whereas 2:1 phyllosilicates were the main source of all extractable nutrients except for Fe and Zn. Kaolin minerals were the most abundant phyllosilicate group within the dataset but did not represent a nutrient source, which reflects the lack of nutrients within their chemical composition and their low cation exchange capacity. Results highlight how the mineral composition controls the total nutrient reserves and their phyto-availability in soils of sub-Saharan Africa. The typical characterisation of soils and their parent material based on the clay particle size fraction (i.e. texture) and\/or the overall silica component (i.e. acid and basic rock types) alone may therefore mask the intricacies of mineral contributions to soil nutrient concentrations.","5":"","6":null,"7":null,"8":"The soil water retention curve is one of the most important properties used to predict the amount of water available to plants, pore size distribution and hydraulic conductivity, as well as knowledge for drainage and irrigation modeling. Depending on the method of measurement adopted, the water retention curve can involve the application of several wetting and drying (W-D) cycles to a soil sample. The method assumes soil pore structure is constant throughout however most of the time soil structure is dynamic and subjected to change when submitted to continuous W-D. Consequently, the pore size distribution, as well as other soil morphological properties can be affected. With this in mind, high resolution X-ray Computed micro-Tomography was utilized to evaluate changes in the soil pore architecture following W-D cycles during the procedure of the water retention curve evaluation. Two different soil sample volumes were analyzed: ROIW (whole sample) and ROIHC (the region close to the bottom of the sample). The second region was selected due to its proximity to the hydraulic contact of the soil with the water retention curve measurement apparatus. Samples were submitted to the following W-D treatments: 0, 6 and 12 W-D. Results indicated the soil changed its porous architecture after W-D cycles. The image-derived porosity did not show differences after W-D cycles for ROIW; while for ROIHC it increased porosity. The porosity was also lower in ROIHC in comparison to ROIW. Pore connectivity improved after W-D cycles for ROIHC, but not for ROIW. W-D cycles induced more aligned pores for both ROIs as observed by the tortuosity results. Pore shape showed changes mainly for ROIW for the equant and triaxial shaped pores; while pore size was significantly influenced by the W-D cycles. Soil water retention curve measurements showed that W-D cycles can affect water retention evaluation and that the changes in the soil morphological properties can play an important role in it.","9":"This paper presents the second part of the mapping of topsoil properties based on the Land Use and Cover Area frame Survey (LUCAS). The first part described the physical properties (Ballabio et al., 2016) while this second part includes the following chemical properties: pH, Cation Exchange Capacity (CEC), calcium carbonates (CaCO3), C:N ratio, nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K). The LUCAS survey collected harmonised data on changes in land cover and the state of land use for the European Union (EU). Among the 270,000 land use and cover observations selected for field visit, approximately 20,000 soil samples were collected in 24 EU Member States in 2009 together with more than 2000 samples from Bulgaria and Romania in 2012. The chemical properties maps for the European Union were produced using Gaussian process regression (GPR) models. GPR was selected for its capacity to assess model uncertainty and the possibility of adding prior knowledge in the form of covariance functions to the model. The derived maps will establish baselines that will help monitor soil quality and provide guidance to agro-environmental research and policy developments in the European Union.","10":null,"11":"In ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests of the western United States, prescribed burns are used to reduce fuel loads and restore historical fire regimes. The season of and interval between burns can have complex consequences for the ecosystem, including the production of pyrogenic carbon (PyC). PyC plays a crucial role in soil carbon cycling, displaying turnover times that are orders of magnitude longer than unburned organic matter. This work investigated how the season of and interval between prescribed burns affect soil organic matter, including the formation and retention of PyC, in a ponderosa pine forest of eastern Oregon. In 1997 a prescribed burn study was implemented in Malheur National Forest to examine the ecological effects of burning at 5 and 15-year intervals in either the spring or fall. In October 2015, both O-horizon and mineral soil (0-15 cm) samples were collected and analyzed for PyC concentration, content, and structure using the benzene polycarboxylic acid (BPCA) method. O-horizon depth, carbon and nitrogen concentration and content, pH, and bulk density were also measured. Plots burned in the spring and fall had lower C and N stocks in the O-horizon compared to the unburned controls due to a reduction in O-horizon depth; however, we did not observe any differences in O-horizon concentration of C or N. Moreover, the concentration and stock of C and N in the mineral soil of plots burned in the spring or fall was the same as or only very slightly different from the unburned controls, suggesting that the prescribed burns on these sites have not adversely affected SOM quantity. Compared to unburned controls, we estimate that fall burns increased the mean PyC concentration of the mineral soil by 8.42 g BPCA\/kg C. We did not detect a difference in mean PyC concentration of the mineral soil between the spring burns and the unburned controls; however, the spring burn plots did contain a number of isolated pockets with very high concentrations of PyC, suggesting a patchier burn pattern for these plots. In general, there was no detectable difference in any of the response variables when comparing the various prescribed burn treatments to one another. The disturbance caused by the reintroduction of fire to this ecosystem may have obscured subtle differences caused by the different seasons and intervals of burn that could become more apparent over time.","12":"The current study seeks to assess sustainability of agricultural land use by identifying the effect of land use change on soil quality using cross-sectional data collected through a household survey among 525 farm households in densely populated areas of Kenya. Soil samples were collected, analyzed and compared across three land use types: undisturbed, semi-disturbed and cultivated. To achieve these objectives, descriptive, Nutrient Index approach and Classification and Regression Tree (CART) analysis methods were used. Results indicate that within a period of five decades, agricultural land use has led to a decline in Total Organic Carbon (-72%), Magnesium (-65%) and Boron (-61%), Iron (-22%) and Total Nitrogen (-15%). The drivers of deterioration identified were cutting across inherent properties such as soil chemical (pH), physical (soil mapping unit) and biological (organic carbon) attributes, farmer practices (agricultural commercialization) and exogenous factors (population density and Agro-ecological zones). The study concludes that indeed conversion of land from natural vegetation is associated with deterioration in soil quality and therefore policy needs to create incentives for the build-up of soil organic matter, replenishment of soil macro and micro nutrients. Blending of commercial fertilizers with targeted micro-nutrients, maintenance of soil conservation techniques and long term fallowing are encouraged.","13":null,"14":null,"15":null,"16":null,"17":null,"18":"In this study, different dosages of calcium polysulphide (CaSx) were used as an amendment to investigate effects on the immobilizing of Cd in a wetland soil by pot experiment. In addition to chemical analysis (pH and bioavailable Cd concentration), changes in soil enzyme activities, microbial carbon utilization capacity, metabolic and community diversity were examined to assess dynamic impacts on soil environmental quality and toxicity of Cd resulting from ameliorant dosing. Soil pH increased immediately upon CaSx amendment compared to the unamended control (CK), and then declined slowly to a level lower than CK. Diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) extractable Cd concentration was determined to characterize the bioavailability of Cd in the soil. The CaSx dose-dependent effect observed that with increasing CaSx dosage, the immobilizing efficiency decreased. Soil urease and catalase activity assays and Biolog EcoPlate assay indicated that early stage addition of CaSx significantly inhibited soil microbial activities. However, mid and late stage time periods showed the inhibition effects were alleviated, and the microbial activities could be recovered in 1% and 2% CaSx treatments. Moreover, with increasing incubation time, microbial community diversity and richness were significantly recovered in 1% and 2% CaSx treatments compared to the CK. No considerable changes were observed in the 5% CaSx treatment. Conclusively, the 1% CaSx amendment was an efficient and safe dosage for the stabilization of Cd contaminated wetland soil. This study contributes to the development of in situ remediation ameliorants and technologies for heavy metal polluted wetland soils.","19":null,"20":"In this study, we evaluated the ability of the SPACSYS model to simulate water run-off, soil moisture, N2O fluxes and grass growth using data generated from a field of the North Wyke Farm Platform. The field-scale model is adapted via a linked and grid-based approach (grid-to-grid) to account for not only temporal dynamics but also the within-field spatial variation in these key ecosystem indicators. Spatial variability in nutrient and water presence at the field-scale is a key source of uncertainty when quantifying nutrient cycling and water movement in an agricultural system. Results demonstrated that the new spatially distributed version of SPACSYS provided a worthy improvement in accuracy over the standard (single-point) version for biomass productivity. No difference in model prediction performance was observed for water run-off, reflecting the closed-system nature of this variable. Similarly, no difference in model prediction performance was found for N2O fluxes, but here the N2O predictions were noticeably poor in both cases. Further developmental work, informed by this study's findings, is proposed to improve model predictions for N2O. Soil moisture results with the spatially distributed version appeared promising but this promise could not be objectively verified.","21":"As a unique biomarker of terrigenous organic matter (OM), lignin has provided valuable information for tracing the sources of OM in land to ocean transfer. Oceanian small mountainous rivers (SMRs) are characterized by extremely high erosional rate and quick change in microclimate within watershed, which may potentially affect the distribution of soil OC and lignin concentrations and compositions. Bulk OC% and lignin were determined on surface soils and soil profiles from a Taiwanese SMR (Jhuoshuei River) and nearby region along a large altitudinal gradient (3-3176 m) to investigate the influence of microclimate on soil OC and lignin. Both surface soils OC% and lignin increased in higher altitude, suggesting higher preservation of OM in the cold region. Variations in lignin vegetation indices (S\/V and C\/V) in surface soils generally reflect the vegetation change in this river basin, and were more affected by precipitation seasonality than mean annual precipitation. Lignin concentration decreased with depth, along with a decrease in S\/V and C\/V and an increase in degradation indices ((Ad\/Al)v and DHBA\/V), reflecting a decreased input and\/or biodegradation of lignin in subsoils. Our survey on soil lignin in Taiwan SMR provided the basis for utilizing lignin to trace the source of OC in land to ocean transfer as well as paleo-climate and paleo-vegetation reconstruction study in Taiwan SMRs.","22":"","23":"Agricultural soils are a major source of nitric- (NO) and nitrous oxide (N2O), which are produced and consumed by biotic and abiotic soil processes. The dominant sources of NO and N2O are microbial nitrification and denitrification, and emissions of NO and N2O generally increase after fertiliser application. The present study investigated the impact of N-source distribution on emissions of NO and N2O from soil and the significance of denitrification, rather than nitrification, as a source of NO emissions. To eliminate spatial variability and changing environmental factors which impact processes and results, the experiment was conducted under highly controlled conditions. A laboratory incubation system (DENIS) was used, allowing simultaneous measurement of three N-gases (NO, N2O, N2) emitted from a repacked soil core, which was combined with 15N-enrichment isotopic techniques to determine the source of N emissions. It was found that the areal distribution of N and C significantly affected the quantity and timing of gaseous emissions and 15N-analysis showed that N2O emissions resulted almost exclusively from the added amendments. Localised higher concentrations, so-called hot spots, resulted in a delay in N2O and N2 emissions causing a longer residence time of the applied N-source in the soil, therefore minimising NO emissions while at the same time being potentially advantageous for plant-uptake of nutrients. If such effects are also observed for a wider range of soils and conditions, then this will have major implications for fertiliser application protocols to minimise gaseous N emissions while maintaining fertilisation efficiency.","24":"Globally, soil respiration is one of the largest fluxes of carbon to the atmosphere and is known to be sensitive to climate change, representing a potential positive feedback. We conducted a number of field experiments to study independent and combined impacts of topography, watering, grazing and climate manipulations on bare soil and vegetated soil (i.e., ecosystem) respiration in northern Mongolia, an area known to be highly vulnerable to climate change and overgrazing. Our results indicated that soil moisture is the most important driving factor for carbon fluxes in this semi-arid ecosystem, based on smaller carbon fluxes under drier conditions. Warmer conditions did not result in increased respiration. Although the system has local topographical gradients in terms of nutrient, moisture availability and plant species, soil respiration responses to OTC treatments were similar on the upper and lower slopes, implying that local heterogeneity may not be important for scaling up the results. In contrast, ecosystem respiration responses to OTCs differed between the upper and the lower slopes, implying that the response of vegetation to climate change may override microbial responses. Our results also showed that light grazing may actually enhance soil respiration while decreasing ecosystem respiration, and grazing impact may not depend on climate change. Overall, our results indicate that soil and ecosystem respiration in this semi-arid steppe are more sensitive to precipitation fluctuation and grazing pressure than to temperature change.","25":null,"26":null,"27":null,"28":null,"29":"We studied the impacts of anthropogenic changes in land use on the stoichiometric imbalance of soil carbon (C), nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) in Phragmites australis wetlands in the Minjiang River estuary. We compared five areas with different land uses: P. australis wetland (control), grassland, a mudskipper breeding flat, pond aquaculture and rice cropland. Human activity has affected the elemental and stoichiometric compositions of soils through changes in land use. In general, soil C and N concentrations were lower and total soil K concentrations were higher at the sites under human land uses relative to the control site, and total soil P concentrations were generally not significantly different. The close relationship between total soil C and N concentrations in all cases, including fertilization with N, suggested that N was the most limiting nutrient in these wetlands. Lower soil N concentrations and similar soil P concentrations and higher soil K concentrations under human land-use activities suggest that human activity has increased the role of N limitation in these wetlands. Only grassland use increases soil N contents (only in the 0-10 cm of soil). Despite N fertilization, lower soil N concentrations were also observed in the rice cropland, indicating the difficulty of avoiding N limitation in these wetlands. The observed lower soil N:P ratio, together with higher soil P and K availabilities in rice croplands, is consistent with the tendency of human activity to change the competitive relationships of plants, in this case favoring species adapted to high rates of growth (low N:P ratio) and\/or favoring plants with high demands for P and K. Both, soil C storage and respiration were higher in grasslands, likely due to the introduction of grasses, which led to a high density of plants, increased grazing activity and soil compaction. Soil C storage and respiration were lower under human land uses, except in the rice cropland, with respect to natural wetland. Using overall data, soil C storage and respiration were correlated, indicating that soil respiration was correlated with plant productivity. In this wetland area the impacts of different human land-uses on soil stoichiometry and C-cycle can be very different depending on the activity. Further regeneration of natural communities can be determined by the previous type of land-use.","30":null,"31":null,"32":"Legacy data in the form of soil maps, which often have typical property measurements associated with each polygon, can be an important source of information for digital soil mapping (DSM). Methods of disaggregating such information and using it for quantitative estimation of soil properties by methods such as regression kriging (RK) are needed. Several disaggregation processes have been investigated; preferred methods include those which include consideration of scorpan factors and those which are mass preserving (pycnophylactic) making transitions between different scales of investigation more theoretically sound. Area to point kriging (AtoP kriging) is pycnophylactic and here we investigate its merits for disaggregating legacy data from soil polygon maps. Area to point regression kriging (AtoP RK) which incorporates ancillary data into the disaggre-gation process was also applied. The AtoP kriging and AtoP RK approaches do not involve collection of new soil measurements and are compared with disaggregation by simple rasterization. Of the disaggregation methods investigated, AtoP RK gave the most accurate predictions of soil organic carbon (SOC) concentrations (smaller mean absolute errors (MAEs) of cross-validation) for disaggregation of soil polygon data across the whole of Northern Ireland. Legacy soil polygon data disaggregated by AtoP kriging and simple rasterization were used in a RK framework for estimating soil organic carbon (SOC) concentrations across the whole of Northern Ireland, using soil sample data from the Tellus survey of Northern Ireland and with other covariates (altitude and airborne radiometric potassium). This allowed direct comparison with previous analysis of the Tellus survey data. Incorporating the legacy data, whether from simple rasterization of the polygons or AtoP kriging, substantially reduced the MAEs of RK compared with previous analyses of the Tellus data. However, using legacy data disaggregated by AtoP kriging in RK resulted in a greater reduction in MAEs. A jack-knife procedure was also performed to determine a suitable number of additional soil samples that would need to be collected for RK of SOC for the whole of Northern Ireland depending on the availability of ancillary data. We recommend i) if only legacy soil polygon map data are available, they should be disaggregated using AtoP kriging, ii) if ancillary data are also available legacy data should be disaggregated using AtoP RK and iii) if new soil measurements are available in addition to ancillary and legacy soil map data, the legacy soil map data should be first disaggregated using AtoP kriging and these data used along with ancillary data as the fixed effects for RK of the new soil measurements.","33":"Blackwater streams are found throughout the Coastal Plain of the southeastern United States and are characterized by a series of instream floodplain swamps that play a critical role in determining the water quality of these systems. Within the state of Georgia, many of these streams are listed in violation of the state's dissolved oxygen (DO) standard. Previous work has shown that sediment oxygen demand (SOD) is elevated in instream floodplain swamps and due to these areas of intense oxygen demand, these locations play a major role in determining the oxygen balance of the watershed as a whole. This work also showed SOD rates to be positively correlated with the concentration of total organic carbon. This study builds on previous work by using geostatistics and Sequential Gaussian Simulation to investigate the patchiness and distribution of total organic carbon (TOC) at the reach scale. This was achieved by interpolating TOC observations and simulated SOD rates based on a linear regression. Additionally, this study identifies areas within the stream system prone to high SOD at representative 3rd and 5th order locations. Results show that SOD was spatially correlated with the differences in distribution of TOC at both locations and that these differences in distribution are likely a result of the differing hydrologic regime and watershed position. Mapping of floodplain soils at the watershed scale shows that areas of organic sediment are widespread and become more prevalent in higher order streams. DO dynamics within blackwater systems are a complicated mix of natural and anthropogenic influences, but this paper illustrates the importance of instream swamps in enhancing SOD at the watershed scale. Moreover, our study illustrates the influence of instream swamps on oxygen demand while providing support that many of these systems are naturally low in DO.","34":null,"35":"In spatial sampling, once initial samples of the primary variable have been collected, it is possible to take additional measurements, an approach known as second-phase sampling. Additional samples are usually collected away from observation locations, or where the kriging variance is maximum. However, the kriging variance (also known as prediction error variance) is independent of data values and computed under the assumption of stationary spatial process, which is often violated in practice. In this paper, we weight the kriging variance with another criterion, giving greater sampling importance to locations exhibiting significant spatial roughness that is computed by a spatial moving average window. Additional samples are allocated using a simulated annealing procedure since the weighted objective function is non-linear. A case study using an exhaustive remote sensing image illustrates the procedure. Combinations of first-phase systematic and nested sampling designs (or patterns) of varying densities are generated, while the location of additional observations is guided in a way which optimizes the proposed objective function. The true pixel value at the new points is extracted, the semivariogram model updated, and the image reconstructed. Second-phase sampling patterns optimizing the proposed criterion lead to predictions closer to the true image than when using the kriging variance as the main criterion. This improvement is stronger when there is a low density of first-phase samples, and decreases however as the initial density increases.","36":"Human induced soil erosion has severe economic and environmental impacts throughout the world. It is more severe in the tropics than elsewhere and results in diminished food production and security. Kenya has limited arable land and 30 percent of the country experiences severe to very severe human induced soil degradation. The purpose of this research was to test visible near infrared diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (VNIR) as a tool for rapid assessment and benchmarking of soil condition and erosion severity class. The study was conducted in the Saiwa River watershed in the northern Rift Valley Province of western Kenya, a tropical highland area. Soil 137Cs concentration was measured to validate spectrally derived erosion classes and establish the background levels for difference land use types. Results indicate VNIR could be used to accurately evaluate a large and diverse soil data set and predict soil erosion characteristics. Soil condition was spectrally assessed and modeled. Analysis of mean raw spectra indicated significant reflectance differences between soil erosion classes. The largest differences occurred between 1,350 and 1,950 nm with the largest separation occurring at 1,920 nm. Classification and Regression Tree (CART) analysis indicated that the spectral model had practical predictive success (72%) with Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) of 0.74. The change in 137Cs concentrations supported the premise that VNIR is an effective tool for rapid screening of soil erosion condition."},"articletitle":{"0":"Greenhouse gas emissions from cattle dung depositions in two Urochloa forage fields with contrasting biological nitrification inhibition (BNI) capacity.","1":"Bayesian approach for sample size determination, illustrated with Soil Health Card data of Andhra Pradesh (India).","2":"Evaluation of a field kit for testing arsenic in paddy soil contaminated by irrigation water.","3":"Challenges and lessons for measuring soil metrics in household surveys.","4":"Mineral-nutrient relationships in African soils assessed using cluster analysis of X-ray powder diffraction patterns and compositional methods.","5":"Research for development in the 21st century.","6":"Soil degradation and recovery - Changes in organic matter fractions and structural stability.","7":"Soil organic carbon, extracellular polymeric substances (EPS), and soil structural stability as affected by previous and current land-use.","8":"X-ray microtomography analysis of soil pore structure dynamics under wetting and drying cycles.","9":"Mapping LUCAS topsoil chemical properties at European scale using Gaussian process regression.","10":"Nitrogen turnover and N2O\/N2 ratio of three contrasting tropical soils amended with biochar.","11":"Effects of season and interval of prescribed burns on pyrogenic carbon in ponderosa pine stands in the southern Blue Mountains, Oregon, USA.","12":"The effect of land use change on soil fertility parameters in densely populated areas of Kenya.","13":"Impact of conservation tillage in rice-based cropping systems on soil aggregation, carbon pools and nutrients.","14":"Assessing the long-term effects of zero-tillage on the macroporosity of Brazilian soils using X-ray Computed Tomography.","15":"Phosphorus availability and dynamics in soil affected by long-term ruzigrass cover crop.","16":"Pre-treatment of soil X-ray powder diffraction data for cluster analysis.","17":"Effects of cropping systems upon the three-dimensional architecture of soil systems are modulated by texture.","18":"Stabilizing Effects on a Cd Polluted Coastal Wetland Soil using Calcium Polysulphide.","19":"Mapping rootable depth and root zone plant-available water holding capacity of the soil of sub-Saharan Africa.","20":"Modelling field scale spatial variation in water run-off, soil moisture, N2O emissions and herbage biomass of a grazed pasture using the SPACSYS model.","21":"Distribution of organic carbon and lignin in soils in a subtropical small mountainous river basin.","22":"Biochar additions can enhance soil structure and the physical stabilization of C in aggregates.","23":"\"Hot spots\" of N and C impact nitric oxide, nitrous oxide and nitrogen gas emissions from a UK grassland soil.","24":"Soil and ecosystem respiration responses to grazing, watering and experimental warming chamber treatments across topographical gradients in northern Mongolia.","25":"Phosphate stable oxygen isotope variability within a temperate agricultural soil.","26":"Assessment of bioavailable organic phosphorus in tropical forest soils by organic acid extraction and phosphatase hydrolysis.","27":"Engineering soil organic matter quality: Biodiesel Co-Product (BCP) stimulates exudation of nitrogenous microbial biopolymers.","28":"Decomposition of beech (Fagus sylvatica) and pine (Pinus nigra) litter along an Alpine elevation gradient: Decay and nutrient release.","29":"Responses of soil nutrient concentrations and stoichiometry to different human land uses in a subtropical tidal wetland.","30":"Environmental and management influences on temporal variability of near saturated soil hydraulic properties.","31":"14C-labeled organic amendments: Characterization in different particle size fractions and humic acids in a long-term field experiment.","32":"Disaggregation of legacy soil data using area to point kriging for mapping soil organic carbon at the regional scale.","33":"Geostatistical modeling of the spatial distribution of sediment oxygen demand within a Coastal Plain blackwater watershed.","34":"Geostatistical modeling of the spatial variability and risk areas of southern root-knot nematodes in relation to soil properties.","35":"Second-Phase Sampling Designs for Non-Stationary Spatial Variables.","36":"Rapid Erosion Modeling in a Western Kenya Watershed using Visible Near Infrared Reflectance, Classification Tree Analysis and 137Cesium."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Geoderma","1":"Geoderma","2":"Geoderma","3":"Geoderma","4":"Geoderma","5":"Geoderma","6":"Geoderma","7":"Geoderma","8":"Geoderma","9":"Geoderma","10":"Geoderma","11":"Geoderma","12":"Geoderma","13":"Geoderma","14":"Geoderma","15":"Geoderma","16":"Geoderma","17":"Geoderma","18":"Geoderma","19":"Geoderma","20":"Geoderma","21":"Geoderma","22":"Geoderma","23":"Geoderma","24":"Geoderma","25":"Geoderma","26":"Geoderma","27":"Geoderma","28":"Geoderma","29":"Geoderma","30":"Geoderma","31":"Geoderma","32":"Geoderma","33":"Geoderma","34":"Geoderma","35":"Geoderma","36":"Geoderma"},"keyword":{"0":"Cattle dungEmission factorMethaneNitrous oxideStatic chamber techniqueTropical forages","1":"Credible intervalDesign parametersFrequentist approachMixed Bayesian-likelihood approachPedometricsSoil fertility","2":"","3":"Miniaturized spectrometerSoil aciditySoil organic contentSoil textureSurvey experiment","4":"Cluster analysisCompositional data analysisMacro-nutrientsMicro-nutrientsSoil mineralogyX-ray powder diffraction","5":"","6":null,"7":"Cation exchange resin (CER)ExopolysaccharideMicrobial exudatesProtein matrix bondingTransient binding agentsWater stable aggregate (MWD)","8":"3D image analysisPore shapePore size distributionSoil micromorphologySoil structure","9":"C:N ratioCation Exchange CapacityGaussian process regressionMappingNitrogenPhosphorusPotassiumpH","10":null,"11":"Pyrogenic carbonblack carboncharprescribed firesoil organic matter","12":"Agricultural intensificationLand use changeSoil qualitySustainable","13":null,"14":"MacroporosityNetwork tortuosityPore connectivityPore shapeZero tillage","15":null,"16":"Cluster analysisSoil mineralogyX-ray powder diffraction","17":"3D image analysisCropping systemsPore connectivityPore size distributionPorosityX-ray CT","18":"BioavailabilityCadmiumCalcium polysulfideMicrobial diversity.Soil enzymeStabilization","19":"AfSP, Africa Soil Profiles databaseAfSS, Africa Sentinel Sites databaseBD, bulk densityCEC, cation exchange capacityDSM, digital soil mappingDigital soil mapEC, electrical conductivityFC, field capacityISFM, Integrated Soil Fertility ManagementMaizePAWHC, plant-available water holding capacityPTF, pedotransfer functionPWP, permanent wilting pointRI, rootability indexRZ-PAWHC, root zone plant-available water holding capacityRZD, root zone depth (rootable depth)Root zone depthRootabilitySFEF, soil fine earth fractionSSA, sub-Saharan AfricaSoil dataSoil waterSub-Saharan AfricaVMC, volumetric moisture contentpF, logarithm of the negative hydrostatic head or matrix potential","20":"Grid-to-grid simulationNorth Wyke Farm PlatformSpatial heterogeneity","21":"Lignin phenolsMicroclimateOrganic carbonSmall mountainous rivers","22":"","23":"DenitrificationFlow-through systemGreenhouse gas (GHG) emissionsIsotopesNitrogen cycle","24":"Ecosystem respirationGrazingMongoliaOpen-top chambersSoil respirationTopographyWatering","25":"GW modelGrasslandNorth Wyke farm platformPhosphorusSpatial analysis","26":"(IP6), myo-inositol hexakisphosphate(P), phosphorus(RP), reactive phosphorus(TP), total phosphorus(UP), unreactive phosphorusBioavailableCitric acidOrganic acidOrganic phosphorusPhosphatase hydrolysisTropical","27":"EPS matrixExocellular amino acidsExopeptideExopolysaccharideExtracellular polymeric substancesGlycerolNitrateProtein dynamics","28":"ClimosequenceDecompositionElevation gradientFagus sylvaticaLitterbagPinus nigra","29":"C:NN:PNitrogenimbalance of nutrientsphosphoruspotassium","30":null,"31":"Cropping systemFarmyard manureFluorescence spectroscopyMid-infrared spectroscopyPhotometrySilt-, clay-sized particles","32":"Area to point krigingDigital soil mappingDisaggregationLegacy soil dataRegression krigingSoil organic carbon","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"137CesiumCARTKenyaerosionsoil degradation"},"pmid":{"0":35039687,"1":34980929,"2":33162565,"3":33012838,"4":33012837,"5":32836329,"6":32255839,"7":32255838,"8":32184497,"9":31798185,"10":31423022,"11":34795456,"12":31160827,"13":30996398,"14":30828104,"15":30828103,"16":30828102,"17":30559518,"18":30504969,"19":30122789,"20":29615828,"21":31798184,"22":29109589,"23":29104306,"24":28239190,"25":28050050,"26":27990026,"27":26635420,"28":26240437,"29":25821240,"30":24748683,"31":23482702,"32":25729090,"33":20938491,"34":20717481,"35":20625537,"36":27397933},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2022,"2":2021,"3":2020,"4":2020,"5":2020,"6":2020,"7":2020,"8":2020,"9":2019,"10":2019,"11":2019,"12":2019,"13":2019,"14":2019,"15":2019,"16":2019,"17":2018,"18":2018,"19":2018,"20":2018,"21":2017,"22":2017,"23":2017,"24":2016,"25":2017,"26":2016,"27":2015,"28":2015,"29":2014,"30":2013,"31":2012,"32":2012,"33":2010,"34":2010,"35":2009,"36":2009}}