{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3},"abstracttext":{"0":"The short paper provides an overview on how geographic issues have become increasingly relevant to public health research and policy, particularly through the lens of geographic information systems (GIS). It covers six themes with an emphasis on methodological issues. (1) Our health-related behavior varies across geographic settings, so should public health policy. (2) Facilities (supply) and patients (demand) in a health care market interact with each other across geopolitical borders, and measures of health care accessibility need to capture that. (3) Our health outcome is the result of joint effects of individual attributes and neighborhood characteristics, and an adequate definition of neighborhood is critical for assessing neighborhood effect. (4) Disease rates in areas of small population are unreliable, and one effective way to mitigate the problem is to construct a larger, internally-homogenous and comparable area unit. (5) Defining a scientific geographic unit for health care market is critical for researchers, practitioners, and policy makers to evaluate health care delivery, and GIS enables us to define the unit (e.g., primary care service areas, hospital service areas, and cancer service areas) automatically, efficiently and optimally. (6) Aside from various optimization objectives around \"efficiency\", it is as important to plan the location and allocation of health care resources toward maximum equality in health care access. Case studies are cited to illustrate each theme.","1":"In environmental health researches and practices, spatial analysis became an important approach to estimation of environmental exposure of human subjects under concern. A typical situation in this kind of application is that the data of pollution are available only at certain locations, and thus inference is needed to convert a limited number of values at discrete locations into a continuous surface. This paper intends to clarify the distinction among three methods that can be used to achieve this conversion, namely interpolation, kernel density estimation (KDE), and snapshotting. Due to the apparent similarity of the three, they may cause confusions that lead to misuses. We compare and contrast the three methods, in terms of nature of the input data, mathematical process of the inference, and essential meaning of the output. For each method we suggest appropriate applications within the context of estimation of environmental exposure.","2":"In the past 15 years, a major research enterprise has emerged that is aimed at understanding associations between geographic and contextual features of the environment (especially the built environment) and elements of human energy balance, including diet, weight, and physical activity. Here we highlight aspects of this research area with a particular focus on research and opportunities in the United States as an example. We address four main areas: 1) The importance of valid and comparable data concerning behavior across geographies, 2) The ongoing need to identify and explore new environmental variables, 3) The challenge of identifying the causally relevant context, and 4) The pressing need for stronger study designs and analytical methods. Additionally, we discuss existing sources of geo-referenced health data which might be exploited by interdisciplinary research teams, personnel challenges and some aspects of funding for geospatial research by the US National Institutes of Health in the past decade, including funding for international collaboration and training opportunities.","3":"Slums are examples of localized communities within third world urban systems representing a range of vulnerabilities and adaptive capacities. This study examines vulnerability in relation to flooding, environmental degradation, social-status, demographics, and health in the slums of Accra, Ghana by utilizing a place-based approach informed by fieldwork, remote sensing, census data, and geographically weighted regression. The study objectives are threefold: (1) to move slums from a dichotomous into a continuous classification and examine the spatial patterns of the gradient, (2) develop measures of vulnerability for a developing world city and model the relationship between slums and vulnerability, and (3) to assess if the most vulnerable individuals live in the worst slums. A previously developed slum index is utilized, and four new measures of vulnerability are developed through principle components analysis, including a novel component of health vulnerability based on child mortality. Visualizations of the vulnerability measures assess spatial patterns of vulnerability in Accra. Ordinary least squares, spatial, and geographically weighted regression model the ability of the slum index to predict the four vulnerability measures. The slum index performs well for three of the four vulnerability measures, but is least able to predict health vulnerability underscoring the complex relationship between slums and child mortality in Accra. Finally, quintile analysis demonstrates the elevated prevalence of high vulnerability in places with high slum index scores."},"articletitle":{"0":"Why Public Health Needs GIS: A Methodological Overview.","1":"Estimation of Environmental Exposure: Interpolation, Kernel Density Estimation, or Snapshotting.","2":"Geospatial and Contextual Approaches to Energy Balance and Health.","3":"Do the Most Vulnerable People Live in the Worst Slums? A Spatial Analysis of Accra, Ghana."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Annals of GIS","1":"Annals of GIS","2":"Annals of GIS","3":"Annals of GIS"},"keyword":{"0":"GIShealth care accessibilityhospital service areaslocation-allocation optimizationmaximum equalitymultilevel modelingneighborhood effectpublic healthregionalization methodsspatial heterogeneity","1":"Environmental exposurehealthinterpolationkernel density estimationsnapshotting","2":"contextualenergy balancegeospatialobesityphysical activityspatial","3":""},"pmid":{"0":32547679,"1":30687456,"2":27076868,"3":22379509},"pubdate_year":{"0":2020,"1":2019,"2":"","3":2012}}