{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4},"abstracttext":{"0":"Anuran advertisement calls play a fundamental role in social interactions related to reproduction, like territory defense and mate attraction. As such, advertisement calls are often shaped by natural and sexual selection. Therefore, to understand the evolution, function, and mechanisms of signal production and perception, it is important to characterize sources and patterns of variation in call properties. We recorded and analyzed the two types of advertisement calls produced by Pacific tree frogs, Hyliola regilla: diphasic and monophasic calls. Specifically, we examined (i) the relationship between call properties and both body size and physical condition, (ii) patterns of within- and among-individual variation in call properties, and (iii) acoustic differences between diphasic and monophasic calls. While only one property of diphasic calls correlates with physical condition, spectral properties of both types of calls correlate with body size. Patterns of within- and among-individual variation were similar between call types and, overall, consistent with patterns reported for closely related species. Monophasic calls have lower frequencies, are delivered faster, and have higher call effort and duty cycle than diphasic calls. We discuss our results in relation to sexual selection and formulate hypotheses about the evolution, function, and mechanisms of acoustic communication in Pacific tree frogs.","1":"Croaking gouramis (genus Trichopsis, Anabantoidei) generate series of two-pulsed bursts (croaks) during agonistic interactions. Sex-specific differences are minor in T. vittata which raises the question whether sexes differ in the other two species. The current study analyses sounds recorded in female T. schalleri, compares the sound characteristics to those of males investigated earlier and correlates these characteristics to female body size. Sex-specific differences were found in three out of six sound characteristics. In females, sounds were lower in burst number, burst period and SPL. Pulse period, dominant frequency and peak-to-peak amplitude ratios of pulses did not differ between sexes. Burst period and SPL increased significantly with female body weight, whereas dominant frequency decreased. The present acoustic data indicate the sex-specific differences are more pronounced in T. schalleri than T. vittata. The results also demonstrate that both sexes are vocal, which remains to be shown for females of the third species, T. pumila, which have poorly developed sonic organs. The evolution of the pectoral sound-producing mechanism in Trichopsis is most likely based on an exaptation process during which acoustic signals are generated by fin tendons initially related to other functions as is evident in closely related genera lacking this organ.","2":"The human-elephant conflict is one of the most serious conservation problems in Asia and Africa today. The involuntary confrontation of humans and elephants claims the lives of many animals and humans every year. A promising approach to alleviate this conflict is the development of an acoustic early warning system. Such a system requires the robust automated detection of elephant vocalizations under unconstrained field conditions. Today, no system exists that fulfills these requirements. In this paper, we present a method for the automated detection of elephant vocalizations that is robust to the diverse noise sources present in the field. We evaluate the method on a dataset recorded under natural field conditions to simulate a real-world scenario. The proposed method outperformed existing approaches and robustly and accurately detected elephants. It thus can form the basis for a future automated early warning system for elephants. Furthermore, the method may be a useful tool for scientists in bioacoustics for the study of wildlife recordings.","3":"Animal vocal signals are increasingly used to monitor wildlife populations and to obtain estimates of species occurrence and abundance. In the future, acoustic monitoring should function not only to detect animals, but also to extract detailed information about populations by discriminating sexes, age groups, social or kin groups, and potentially individuals. Here we show that it is possible to estimate age groups of African elephants (Loxodonta africana) based on acoustic parameters extracted from rumbles recorded under field conditions in a National Park in South Africa. Statistical models reached up to 70 % correct classification to four age groups (infants, calves, juveniles, adults) and 95 % correct classification when categorising into two groups (infants\/calves lumped into one group versus adults). The models revealed that parameters representing absolute frequency values have the most discriminative power. Comparable classification results were obtained by fully automated classification of rumbles by high-dimensional features that represent the entire spectral envelope, such as MFCC (75 % correct classification) and GFCC (74 % correct classification). The reported results and methods provide the scientific foundation for a future system that could potentially automatically estimate the demography of an acoustically monitored elephant group or population.","4":"Previous research on inter-individual variation in the calls of corvids has largely been restricted to single call types, such as alarm or contact calls, and has rarely considered the effects of age on call structure. This study explores structural variation in a contextually diverse set of \"caw\" calls of the American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos), including alarm, foraging recruitment and territorial calls, and searches for structural features that may be associated with behavioural context and caller sex, age, and identity. Automated pitch detection algorithms are used to generate 23 pitch-related and spectral parameters for a collection of caws from 18 wild, marked crows. Using principal component analysis and mixed models, we identify independent axes of acoustic variation associated with behavioural context and with caller sex, respectively. We also have moderate success predicting caller sex and identity from call structure. However, we do not find significant acoustic variation with respect to caller age."},"articletitle":{"0":"Individual variation in two types of advertisement calls of Pacific tree frogs, Hyliola (=Pseudacris) regilla, and the implications for sexual selection and species recognition.","1":"Sound production in female Trichopsis schalleri (Labyrinth fishes): comparison to males and evolutionary considerations.","2":"Towards an Automated Acoustic Detection System for Free Ranging Elephants.","3":"Age group estimation in free-ranging African elephants based on acoustic cues of low-frequency rumbles.","4":"Acoustic profiling in a complexly social species, the American crow: caws encode information on caller sex, identity, and behavioural context."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Bioacoustics","1":"Bioacoustics","2":"Bioacoustics","3":"Bioacoustics","4":"Bioacoustics"},"keyword":{"0":"Hyliola regillaHyliola sierraPacific chorus frogPacific tree frogadvertisement callanimal communication","1":"Acoustic signalsdominant frequencysex-specific differencessexual dimorphismsonic organssound level","2":"Human-elephant conflictLoxodonta africanaautomated elephant detectionspectral signal enhancementwildlife monitoring","3":"Loxodonta africanaacoustic cuesacoustic monitoringage groups","4":"PACS Code 43.80.Kaacoustic feature analysiscall classificationcaller identitysexual dimorphismvocal ontogeny"},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":34239226,"1":32257627,"2":25983398,"3":25821348,"4":25419053},"pubdate_year":{"0":2021,"1":2020,"2":2015,"3":2014,"4":2015}}