{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5},"abstracttext":{"0":"The ongoing coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) throughout the world has severely threatened the global economy and public health. Due to receiving severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) from a wide variety of sources (e.g., households, hospitals, slaughterhouses), urban sewage treatment systems are regarded as an important path for the transmission of waterborne viruses. This review presents a quantitative profile of the concentration distribution of typical viruses within wastewater collection systems and evaluates the influence of different characteristics of sewer systems on virus species and concentration. Then, the efficiencies and mechanisms of virus removal in the units of wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are summarized and compared, among which the inactivation efficiencies of typical viruses by typical disinfection approaches under varied operational conditions are elucidated. Subsequently, the occurrence and removal of viruses in treated effluent reuse and desalination, as well as that in sewage sludge treatment, are discussed. Potential dissemination of viruses is emphasized by occurrence via aerosolization from toilets, the collection system and WWTP aeration, which might have a vital role in the transmission and spread of viruses. Finally, the frequency and concentration of viruses in reclaimed water, the probability of infection are also reviewed for discussing the potential health risks.","1":null,"2":"Whilst the efficiency of reverse electrodialysis (RED) for thermal-to-electrical conversion has been theoretically demonstrated for low-grade waste heat, the specific configuration and salinity required to manage power generation has been less well described. This study demonstrates that operating RED by recycling feed solutions provides the most suitable configuration for energy recovery from a fixed solution volume, providing a minimum unitary cost for energy production. For a fixed membrane area, recycling feeds achieves energy efficiency seven times higher than single pass (conventional operation), and with an improved power density. However, ionic transport, water flux and concentration polarisation introduce complex temporal effects when concentrated brines are recirculated, that are not ordinarily encountered in single pass systems. Regeneration of the concentration gradient at around 80% energy dissipation was deemed most economically pragmatic, due to the increased resistance to mass transport beyond this threshold. However, this leads to significant exergy destruction that could be improved by interventions to better control ionic build up in the dilute feed. Further improvements to energy efficiency were fostered through optimising current density for each brine concentration independently. Whilst energy efficiency was greatest at lower brine concentrations, the work produced from a fixed volume of feed solution was greatest at higher saline concentrations. Since the thermal-to-electrical conversion proposed is governed by volumetric heat utilisation (distillation to reset the concentration gradient), higher brine concentrations are therefore recommended to improve total system efficiency. Importantly, this study provides new evidence for the configuration and boundary conditions required to realise RED as a practical solution for application to sources of low-grade waste heat in industry.","3":null,"4":"Global demand for water is rising. A sustainable and energy efficient approach is needed to desalinate brackish sources for agricultural and municipal water use. Genetic variation among two algae species, Scenedesmus species (S. sp.) and Chlorella vulgaris (C. vulgaris), in their tolerance and uptake of salt (NaCl) was examined for potential bio-desalination of brackish water. Salt-tolerant hyper-accumulators were evaluated in a batch photobioreactors over salinity concentration ranging from 2 g\/L to 20 g\/L and different nutrient composition for their growth rate and salt-uptake. During algae growth phase, the doubling time varied between 0.63 and 1.81 days for S. sp. and 3.1 to 5.9 for C. vulgaris. The initial salt-uptake followed pseudo first order kinetics where the rate constant ranged between -3.58 and -7.68 day-1 reaching up to 30% in a single cycle. The halophyte algae S. sp. and C. vulgaris that were selected for pilot-scale studies here represent a promising new method for desalination of brackish waters. Halophytic technologies combined with the potential use of algae for biofuel, which offsets energy demand, can provide a sustainable solution for clean, affordable water and energy.","5":null},"articletitle":{"0":"Sources, fates and treatment strategies of typical viruses in urban sewage collection\/treatment systems: A review.","1":"Reliability of thermal desalination (solar stills) for water\/wastewater treatment in light of COVID-19 (novel coronavirus \"SARS-CoV-2\") pandemic: What should consider?","2":"Managing power dissipation in closed-loop reverse electrodialysis to maximise energy recovery during thermal-to-electric conversion.","3":"Techno-economic assessment of solar energy coupling with large-scale desalination plant: The case of Morocco.","4":"Bio-desalination of brackish and seawater using halophytic algae.","5":"Application of MBR for hospital wastewater treatment in China."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Desalination","1":"Desalination","2":"Desalination","3":"Desalination","4":"Desalination","5":"Desalination"},"keyword":{"0":"Collection systemsFateRemovalVirusWWTP treatment units","1":"COVID-19Environmental contaminationPathogensSolar desalinationWastewater treatmentWaterborne disease","2":"Brine concentrateClosed-loopDistillationHeat engineRecycleSalinity gradient energy","3":"DesalinationMoroccoSolar energyTechno-economic assessment","4":"Bio-desalinationBrackish waterHalophytic algaePhotobioreactor","5":"By-products (DBPs)DisinfectionHospital wastewaterMembrane bioreactor (MBR)"},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":35498908,"1":33967299,"2":33335330,"3":32863401,"4":32704185,"5":32226093},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2021,"2":2020,"3":2020,"4":2019,"5":2010}}