{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54,"55":55,"56":56,"57":57,"58":58,"59":59,"60":60,"61":61,"62":62,"63":63,"64":64,"65":65,"66":66,"67":67,"68":68,"69":69,"70":70},"abstracttext":{"0":"Due to the numerous failed clinical trials of anti-amyloid drugs, microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT) now stands out as one of the most promising targets for AD therapy. In this study, we report for the first time the structure-dependent MAPT aggregation inhibition of carbon nitride dots (CNDs). CNDs have exhibited great promise as a potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by inhibiting the aggregation of MAPT. In order to elucidate its structure-activity relationship, CNDs were separated via column chromatography and five fractions with different structures were obtained that were characterized by multiple spectroscopy methods. The increase of surface hydrophilic functional groups is consistent with the increase of polarity from fraction 1 to 5. Particle sizes (1-2 nm) and zeta potentials (~-20 mV) are similar among five fractions. With the increase of polarity from fraction 1 to 5, their MAPT aggregation inhibition capacity was weakened. This suggests hydrophobic interactions between CNDs and MAPT, validated via molecular dynamics simulations. With a zebrafish blood-brain barrier (BBB) model, CNDs were observed to cross the BBB through passive diffusion. CNDs were also found to inhibit the generation of multiple reactive oxygen species, which is an important contributor to AD pathogenesis.","1":null,"2":"Multilayer graphene sheets (MLGSs) are promising nano-reinforcements that can effectively enhance the properties of polymer matrices. Despite many studies on MLGSs-reinforced polymer nanocomposites, the effect of wrinkles formed in MLGSs on the reinforcement effect and the viscoelastic properties of polymer nanocomposites has remained unknown. In this study, building upon previously developed coarse-grained models of MLGSs and poly(methyl methacrylate) coupled with molecular dynamics simulations, we have systematically investigated nanocomposites with different numbers of graphene layers and various wrinkle configurations. We find that with decreasing degree of waviness and increasing numbers of layers, the elastic modulus of the nanocomposites increases. Interestingly, we observe a sudden stress drop during shear deformation of certain wrinkled MLGSs-reinforced nanocomposites. We further conduct small amplitude oscillatory shear simulations on these nanocomposites and find that the nanocomposites with these specific wrinkle configurations also show peculiarly large loss tangents, indicating an increasing capability of energy dissipation. These behaviors are attributed to the activation of the interlayer sliding among these wrinkled MLGSs, as their interlayer shear strengths are indeed lower than flat MLGSs measured by steered molecular dynamics technique. Our study demonstrates that the viscoelastic properties and deformation mechanisms of polymer nanocomposites can be tuned through MLGS wrinkle engineering.","3":null,"4":"We propose a novel method to exploit chirality of highly sensitive graphene plasmonic metasurfaces to characterize complex refractive indexes (RI) of viruses by detecting the polarization state of the reflected electric fields in the THz spectrum. A dispersive graphene metasurface is designed to produce chiral surface currents to couple linearly polarized incident fields to circularly polarized reflected fields. The metasurface sensing sensitivity is the result of surface plasmon currents that flow in a chiral fashion with strong intensity due to the underlying geometrical resonance. Consequently, unique polarization states are observed in the far-field with the ellipticity values that change rapidly with the analyte's RI. The determination of bimolecular RI is treated as an inverse problem in which the polarization states of the virus is compared with a pre-calculated calibration model that is obtained by full-wave electromagnetic simulations. We demonstrate the polarization selective sensing method by RI discrimination of three different types of Avian Influenza (AI) viruses including H1N1, H5N2, and H9N2 is possible. Since the proposed virus characterization method only requires determination of the polarization ellipses including its orientation at monochromatic frequency, the required instrumentation is simpler compared to traditional spectroscopic methods which need a broadband frequency scan.","5":"Liquid-phase deposition of exfoliated 2D nanosheets is the basis for emerging technologies that include writable electronic inks, molecular barriers, selective membranes, and protective coatings against fouling or corrosion. These nanosheet thin films have complex internal structures that are discontinuous assemblies of irregularly tiled micron-scale sheets held together by van der Waals (vdW) forces. On stiff substrates, nanosheet vdW films are stable to many common stresses, but can fail by internal delamination under shear stress associated with handling or abrasion. This \"re-exfoliation\" pathway is an intrinsic feature of stacked vdW films and can limit nanosheet-based technologies. Here we investigate the shear stability of graphene oxide and MoSe2 nanosheet vdW films through lap shear experiments on polymer-nanosheet-polymer laminates. These sandwich laminate structures fail in mixed cohesive and interfacial mode with critical shear forces from 40 - 140 kPa and fracture energies ranging from 0.2 - 6 J\/m2. Surprisingly these energies are higher than delamination energies reported for smooth peeling of ordered stacks of continuous 2D sheets, which we propose is due to energy dissipation and chaotic crack motion during nanosheet film disassembly at the crack tip. Experiment results also show that film thickness plays a key role in determining critical shear force (maximum load before failure) and dissipated energy for different nanosheet vdW films. Using a mechanical model with an edge crack in the thin nanosheet film, we propose a shear-to-tensile failure mode transition to explain a maximum in critical shear force for graphene oxide films but not MoSe2 films. This transition reflects a weakening of the substrate confinement effect and increasing rotational deformation near the film edge as the film thickness increases. For graphene oxide, the critical shear force can be increased by electrostatic cross-linking achieved through interlayer incorporation of metal cations. These results have important implications for the stability of functional devices that employ 2D nanosheet coatings.","6":null,"7":"In this study, the structural properties of soot produced in diffusion flames are analyzed to elucidate the formation of mature aggregates from large young particles. Soot samples are generated in a laminar diffusion inverted gravity flame reactor (IGFR) operated on methane, ethane, and ethylene with Ar dilution to reduce the flame temperature. Soot produced in temperature ranges from 1495K-1568 K contains 100nm-300nm particles with (i) isotropic or (ii) multiple core structures, supporting a soot maturation pathway where one young soot particle evolves into a mature fractal aggregate via an internal nucleation route. During the process, these large amorphous particles can form internal voids as the particle loses mass due to pyrolysis or oxidation. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) shows that young soot aggregates contain a higher fraction of shorter fringes and highly curved aromatics (11% vs. 23%), which is in agreement with their higher organic carbon content (3.3%-5.4% vs. 12.1%-28.8% wt.). Increasing the flame temperature reduces the curvature of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and allows for more efficient layer stacking as indicated by a higher percent of stacked fringes. For these gaseous fuels, carbonization appears to be primarily a function of the flame temperature and independent of the fuel composition.","8":"Increasing use of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) in consumer and industrials goods increases their potential release, and subsequent risks to environmental and human health. Therefore, it is becoming ever more important that CNTs are designed to reduce or eliminate hazards and that hazard assessment methodologies are robust. Here, oxygen-functionalized multi-walled CNTs (O-MWCNTs), modified under varying redox conditions, were assessed for toxic potential using the zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryo model. Multiple physicochemical properties (e.g., MWCNT aggregate size, morphology, and rate; surface charge and oxygen concentration; and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation) were characterized and related to zebrafish embryo mortality through the use of multivariate statistical methods. Of these properties, surface charge and aggregate morphology emerged as the greatest predictors of embryo mortality. Interestingly, ROS generation was not significantly correlated to observed mortality, contrary to prior predictions by nanotoxicology researchers. This suggests that the mechanism of MWCNT-induced mortality of embryonic zebrafish is physical, driven by electrostatic and shape effects, both of which are related to nanomaterial aggregation. This raises the importance of rigorously considering aggregation during aqueous-based nanotoxicology assays as nanomaterial aggregation can affect perceived nanomaterial toxicity. As such, future nanotoxicity studies relying on aqueous media must sufficiently consider nanomaterial aggregation.","9":null,"10":"Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have emerged as promising drug delivery systems particularly for cancer therapy, due to their abilities to overcome some of the challenges faced by cancer treatment, namely non-specificity, poor permeability into tumour tissues, and poor stability of anticancer drugs. Encapsulation of anticancer agents inside CNTs provides protection from external deactivating agents. However, the open ends of the CNTs leave the encapsulated drugs exposed to the environment and eventually their uncontrolled release before reaching the desired target. In this study, we report the successful encapsulation of cisplatin, a FDA-approved chemotherapeutic drug, into multi-walled carbon nanotubes and the capping at the ends with functionalised gold nanoparticles to achieve a \"carbon nanotube bottle\" structure. In this proof-of-concept study, these caps did not prevent the encapsulation of drug in the inner space of CNTs; on the contrary, we achieved higher drug loading inside the nanotubes in comparison with data reported in literature. In addition, we demonstrated that encapsulated cisplatin could be delivered in living cells under physiological conditions to exert its pharmacological action.","11":"Monolayer epitaxial graphene (EG) has been shown to have clearly superior properties for the development of quantized Hall resistance (QHR) standards. One major difficulty with QHR devices based on EG is that their electrical properties drift slowly over time if the device is stored in air due to adsorption of atmospheric molecular dopants. The crucial parameter for device stability is the charge carrier density, which helps determine the magnetic flux density required for precise QHR measurements. This work presents one solution to this problem of instability in air by functionalizing the surface of EG devices with chromium tricarbonyl -Cr(CO)3. Observations of carrier density stability in air over the course of one year are reported, as well as the ability to tune the carrier density by annealing the devices. For low temperature annealing, the presence of Cr(CO)3 stabilizes the electrical properties and allows for the reversible tuning of the carrier density in millimeter-scale graphene devices close to the Dirac point. Precision measurements in the quantum Hall regime show no detrimental effect on the carrier mobility.","12":null,"13":null,"14":"Heteroatom-doped metal-free graphene has been widely studied as the catalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Depending on the preparation method and the dopants, the ORR activity varies ranging from a two-electron to a four-electron pathway. The different literature reports are difficult to correlate due to the large variances. However, due to the potential metal contamination, the origin of the ORR activity from \"metal-free\" graphene remains confusing and inconclusive. Here we decipher the ORR catalytic activities of diverse architectures on graphene derived from reduced graphene oxide. High angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy, X-ray absorption near edge structure, extended X-ray absorption fine structure, and trace elemental analysis methods are employed. The mechanistic origin of ORR activity is associated with the trace manganese content and reaches its highest performance at an onset potential of 0.94 V when manganese exists as a mononuclear-centered structure within defective graphene. This study exposes the deceptive role of trace metal in formerly thought to be metal-free graphene materials. It also provides insight into the design of better-performing catalyst for ORR by underscoring the coordination chemistry possible for future single-atom catalyst materials.","15":"While high-quality defect-free epitaxial graphene can be efficiently grown on metal substrates, strong interaction with the supporting metal quenches its outstanding properties. Thus, protocols to transfer graphene to insulating substrates are obligatory, and these often severely impair graphene properties by the introduction of structural or chemical defects. Here we describe a simple and easily scalable general methodology to structurally and electronically decouple epitaxial graphene from Pt(111) and Ir(111) metal surfaces. A multi-technique characterization combined with ab-initio calculations was employed to fully explain the different steps involved in the process. It was shown that, after a controlled electrochemical oxidation process, a single-atom thick metal-hydroxide layer intercalates below graphene, decoupling it from the metal substrate. This decoupling process occurs without disrupting the morphology and electronic properties of graphene. The results suggest that suitably optimized electrochemical treatments may provide effective alternatives to current transfer protocols for graphene and other 2D materials on diverse metal surfaces.","16":null,"17":null,"18":"The degradation of polypropylene (PP) and PP-multiwalled carbon nanotube (PP-MWCNT) panels during environmental weathering resulted in an increased degree of crystallinity, making them brittle, and creating surface cracks. The degradation led to a breakdown of the panels and increased the potential for nanorelease. Thermal analysis revealed that the thickness of the test panels and reinforcement with MWCNTs had a significant influence on the stability of PP-MWCNT composites. Differential scanning calorimetry indicated that the MWCNTs acted as nucleation points, increasing the crystallization temperatures of PP-MWCNT, which reduced the extent of aging. Weathering decreased both the melting and crystallization temperatures of PP by as much as 20 o C. The reduction in the temperatures was inversely proportional to the thickness of the panels. The activation energy (E a ) obtained using isoconversional kinetics of the TGA analysis showed that the effective thermo-oxidative degradations of PP changed during aging. The E a for the initial stages of thermal degradation decreased from ~330 kJ\/mol to ~100 kJ\/mol for aged PP. During the late degradation stages, the E a values increased to ~300 kJ\/mol. These results suggest that early degradation were altered because of the changes in the molecular structure of the aged P and a shift in the degradation rate-limiting steps.","19":null,"20":null,"21":"Radionuclide therapy with nano-sized carriers is a very promising approach to treat various types of cancer. The preparation of radioactive nanocarriers can be achieved with minimum handling using a neutron-activation approach. However, the nanocarrier material must possess certain characteristics such as low density, heat-resistance, high metal adsorption, easy surface modification and low toxicity in order to be useful. Mesoporous Carbon Nanoparticles (MCNs) in which holmium oxide is formed in their pores by a wet-impregnation process are investigated as a suitable material for this application. Holmium (165Ho) has a natural abundance of 100% and possesses a large cross-section for capturing thermal neutrons. After irradiation of Ho-containing MCNs in a neutron flux, 166Ho, which emits therapeutic high energy beta particles as well as diagnostic low energy gamma photons that can be imaged externally, is produced. The wet impregnation process (16 w\/w% Ho loading) is shown to completely prevent the leaching of radioactive holmium from the MCNs without compromising their structural integrity. In vitro studies showed that the MCNs containing non-radioactive holmium do not exhibit toxicity and the same formulation with radioactive holmium (166Ho) demonstrated a tumoricidal effect. Post-irradiation PEGylation of the MCN surfaces endows dispersibility and biocompatibility.","22":null,"23":"Commercially useful rubber products viz. gloves, condoms, tyres, and rubber hoses used in high temperature environments, etc., require efficient thermal conductivity, which increases the lifetime of these products. Graphene can fetch this property, if it is effectively incorporated into the rubber matrix. The great challenge in preparing graphene-rubber nanocomposites is formulating a scalable method to produce defect free graphene and its homogeneous dispersion into polymer matrices through an aqueous medium. Here, we used a simple method to produce defect free few layer (2-5) graphene, which can be easily dispersed into natural rubber (NR) latex without adversely affecting its colloidal stability. The resulting new composite showed large increase in thermal conductivity (480-980%) along with 40% increase in tensile properties and 60% improvement in electrical conductivity. This study provides a novel and generalized approach for the preparation of graphene based thermally conductive rubber nanocomposites.","24":null,"25":null,"26":"Growth of high quality and monolayer graphene on copper thin films on silicon wafers is a promising approach to massive and direct graphene device fabrication in spite of the presence of potential dewetting issues in the copper film during graphene growth. Current work demonstrates roles of a nickel adhesion coupled with the copper film resulting in mitigation of dewetting problem as well as uniform monolayer graphene growth over 97 % coverage on films. The feasibility of monolayer graphene growth on Cu-Ni alloy films as thin as 150 nm in total is also demonstrated. During the graphene growth on Cu-Ni films, the nickel adhesion layer uniformly diffuses into the copper thin film resulting in a Cu-Ni alloy, helping to promote graphene nucleation and large area surface coverage. Furthermore, it was found that the use of extremely thin metal catalyst films also constraint the total amount of carbon that can be absorbed into the film during growth, which helps to eliminate adlayer formation and promote monolayer growth regardless of alloying content, thus improving the monolayer fraction of graphene coverage on the thinner films. These results suggest a path forward for the large scale integration of high quality, monolayer graphene into nanoelectronic and nanomechanical devices.","27":"Multiwall carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) are nanofillers used in consumer and structural polymeric products to enhance a variety of properties. Under weathering, the polymer matrix will degrade and the nanofillers may be released from the products potentially impacting ecological or human health. In this study, we investigated the degradation of a 0.72 % (by mass) MWCNT\/amine-cured epoxy nanocomposite irradiated with high intensity ultraviolet (UV) light at various doses, the effects of UV exposure on the surface accumulation and potential release of MWCNTs, and possible mechanisms for the release resistance of the MWCNT surface layer formed on nanocomposites by UV irradiation. Irradiated samples were characterized for chemical degradation, mass loss, surface morphological changes, and MWCNT release using a variety of analytical techniques. Under 295 nm to 400 nm UV radiation up to a dose of 4865 MJ\/m2, the nanocomposite matrix underwent photodegradation, resulting in formation of a dense, entangled MWCNT network structure on the surface. However, no MWCNT release was detected, even at very high UV doses, suggesting that the MWCNT surface layer formed from UV irradiation of polymer nanocomposites resist release. Four possible release resistance mechanisms of the UV-induced MWCNT surface layer are presented and discussed.","28":null,"29":"Graphene oxide (GO) membrane has been synthesized on commercial polysulfone ultrafiltration membranes (Pore size: 17 nm) using the drop casting method followed by baking at 90 C for 24 h. Baking resulted in the reduction of GO and removal of bulk water intercalated in the GO sheets. Deposited GO film showed high stability under shear stress variation. This work shows that water adsorption on the GO membrane determines its permeation performance. Despite the higher viscosity of isopropyl alcohol (IPA), its permeability was 7 times higher than water through the baked (\"dry\") GO membranes, which were never contacted with water. However, IPA permeability of GO membranes dropped to 44% (of deionized water) when contacted with water (\"hydrated\" or \"wet\" GO membranes). Extensive size exclusion (rejection) studies with various dye and dendrimer molecules showed pore size reduced from 3.3 nm in the \"dry\" state to 1.3 nm in the \"wet\" state of GO membranes. FT-IR characterization of GO membrane suggested adsorption of water on the nanochannels of the active layer. Also, significant decay in flux was observed for water (82% of its initial flux) as compared to IPA (38% of its initial flux) for initially dry GO membranes.","30":"A major use of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) is as functional fillers embedded in a solid matrix, such as plastics or coatings. Weathering and abrasion of the solid matrix during use can lead to environmental releases of the MWCNTs. Here we focus on a protocol to identify and quantify the primary release induced by weathering, and assess reproducibility, transferability, and sensitivity towards different materials and uses. We prepared 132 specimens of two polymer-MWCNT composites containing the same grade of MWCNTs used in earlier OECD hazard assessments but without UV stabilizer. We report on a pilot inter-laboratory comparison (ILC) with four labs (two US and two EU) aging by UV and rain, then shipping for analysis. Two labs (one US and one EU) conducted the release sampling and analysis by Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Inductively Coupled Plasma- Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS), UltravioleteVisible Spectroscopy (UVeVis), Analytical Ultracentrifugation (AUC), and Asymmetric Flow Field Flow Fractionation (AF4). We compare results between aging labs, between analysis labs and between materials. Surprisingly, we found quantitative agreement between analysis labs for TEM, ICP-MS, UVeVis; low variation between aging labs by all methods; and consistent rankings of release between TEM, ICP-MS, UVeVis, AUC. Significant disagreement was related primarily to differences in aging, but even these cases remained within a factor of two.","31":null,"32":"Fast external heating rates in graphite oxide thermal exfoliation have been reported to be advantageous for generating high surface area graphene-based materials for a variety of applications. The study yields the surprising result that the surface area and porosity developed in reduced graphite oxide under some conditions are independent of instrument-set external heating rates. The true \"total\" heating rate experienced by the sample is shown to be the sum of the external rate and the local self-heating rate associated with the exothermicity of graphite oxide exfoliation, and under many conditions, the local self-heating contribution dominates. In these instances, increasing external heating rate does not increase the total rate, improve exfoliation degree or enhance surface area. These results are important for optimizing the conditions for fabrication of reduced graphene oxide with tailored properties.","33":"We present an investigation on Fe-catalyzed etching of graphite by dewetting Fe thin films on graphite in forming gas. Raman mapping of the etched graphite shows thickness variation in the etched channels and reveals that the edges are predominately terminated in zigzag configuration. X-ray diffraction and photoelectron spectroscopy measurements identify that the catalytic particles are Fe with the presence of iron carbide and iron oxides. The existence of iron carbide indicates that, in additional to carbon hydrogenation, carbon dissolution into Fe is also involved during etching. Furthermore, the catalytic particles can be re-activated upon a second annealing in forming gas.","34":"To better assess risks associated with nano-enabled products including multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) within polymer matrices, it is important to understand how MWCNT are dispersed throughout the composite. The current study presents a method which employs imaging X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) to chemically detect spatially segregated MWCNT rich regions at an epoxy composites surface by exploiting differential charging. MWCNT do not charge due to high conductivity and have previously been shown to energetically separate from their insulating surroundings when characterized by XPS. XPS in imaging mode revealed that these conductive regions were spatially separated due to micrometer-scale MWCNT aggregation and poor dispersion during the formation of the composite. Three MWCNT concentrations were studied; (1, 4 and 5) % by mass MWCNT within an epoxy matrix. Images acquired in periodic energy intervals were processed using custom algorithms designed to efficiently extract spectra from regions of interest. As a result, chemical and electrical information on aggregate and non-aggregate portions of the composite was extracted. Raman imaging and scanning electron microscopy were employed as orthogonal techniques for validating this XPS-based methodology. Results demonstrate that XPS imaging of differentially charging MWCNT composite samples is an effective means for assessing dispersion quality.","35":null,"36":null,"37":"Whether graphene and graphene oxide (GO) would affect the activities of bacteria has been under debate. Nevertheless, how graphene derivatives with biocompatible coatings interact with microorganisms and the underlying mechanisms are important issues for nanobiotechnology, and remain to be further explored. Herein, three new types of nano-GOs functionalized with polyethylene glycol (nGO-PEGs) were synthesized by varying the PEGylation degree, and their effects on Escherichia coli (E. coli) were carefully investigated. Interestingly, nGO-PEG (1:1), the one with relatively lower PEGylation degree, could significantly stimulate bacterial growth, whereas as-made GO and the other two nGO-PEGs showed no effect. Further analysis revealed that nGO-PEG (1:1) treatment significantly accelerated FtsZ-ring assembly, shortening Phase 1 in the bacterial cell cycle. Both DNA synthesis and extracellular polymeric substance (EPS) secretion were also dramatically increased. This unique phenomenon suggests promising potentials in microbial engineering as well as in clinical detection of bacterial pathogens. As a proof-of-concept, nGO-PEG (1:1) treatment could remarkably enhance (up to 6-fold) recombinant protein production in engineered bacteria cells. To our best knowledge, this is the first demonstration of functionalized GO as a novel, positive regulator in microbial engineering. Moreover, our work highlights the critical role of surface chemistry in modulating the interactions between nanomaterials and microorganisms.","38":"Progress in the development of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) has stimulated great interest among industries providing new applications. Meanwhile, toxicological evaluations on nanomaterials are advancing leading to a predictive exposure limit for CNTs, which implies the possibility of designing safer CNTs. To pursue safety by design, the redox potential in reactions with CNTs has been contemplated recently. However, the chemical reactivity of CNTs has not been explored kinetically, so that there is no scheme to express a redox reaction with CNTs, though it has been investigated and reported. In addition, the reactivity of CNTs is discussed with regard to impurities that consist of transition metals in CNTs, which obfuscates the contribution of CNTs to the reaction. The present work aimed at modeling CNT scavenging in aqueous solution using a kinetic approach and a simple first-order reaction scheme. The results show that CNTs follow the redox reaction assumption in a simple chemical system. As a result, the reaction with multiwalled CNTs is semi-quantitatively denoted as redox potential, which suggests that their biological reactions may also be evaluated using a redox potential scheme.","39":"The present study systematically examined the kinetics of a hydroxyl radical scavenging reaction of various carbon nanotubes (CNTs) including double-walled and multi-walled carbon nanotubes (DWCNTs and MWCNTs), and carbon nano peapods (AuCl3@DWCNT). The theoretical model that we recently proposed based on the redox potential of CNTs was used to analyze the experimental results. The reaction kinetics for DWCNTs and thin MWCNTs agreed well with the theoretical model and was consistent with each other. On the other hand, thin and thick MWCNTs behaved differently, which was consistent with the theory. Additionally, surface morphology of CNTs substantially influenced the reaction kinetics, while the doped particles in the center hollow parts of CNTs (AuCl3@DWCNT) shifted the redox potential in a different direction. These findings make it possible to predict the chemical and biological reactivity of CNTs based on the structural and chemical nature and their influence on the redox potential.","40":"Graphene-based material (GBM) samples acquired from commercial sources are investigated using X-ray diffraction (XRD). Of the 18 GBM samples investigated here, seven samples show XRD patterns with features characteristic of the graphite structure. The XRD patterns of the seven samples are analyzed showing the presence of both the ABA (2H) structure and the ABCA (3R) structure. After de-convoluting the (101) lines of the 2H and 3R structures, the areas under the peaks are used to determine the relative concentrations of the 2H and 3R phases present, typically yielding the ratio 60\/40 for 2H\/3R. The presence of the 3R structure is important since the 3R structure is a semiconductor with tunable band gap and it is less stable than the 2H structure. The number of layers determined from the analysis of the XRD data varies between 65 and 109 for different samples yielding thickness of the graphite sheets varying between 22 nm and 37 nm. Scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy of three representative samples confirms the sheet-like morphology and stacking of the graphene layers in the samples. Relevance of these results in connection with their potential applications and toxicology is briefly discussed.","41":"Nanomaterials have been extensively investigated for cancer drug delivery and imaging applications. Nanoparticles that show promise in two-dimensional cell culture systems often fail in more complex environments, possibly due to the lack of penetration in dense, three-dimensional structures. Multicellular tumor spheroids are an emerging model system to investigate interactions of nanoparticles with 3D in vitro cell culture environments. Using the intrinsic near-infrared emission of semiconducting carbon nanotubes to optically reconstruct their localization within a three-dimensional volume, we resolved the relative permeability of two different multicellular tumor spheroids. Nanotube photoluminescence revealed that nanotubes rapidly internalized into MCF-7 breast cancer cell-derived spheroids, whereas they exhibited little penetration into spheroids derived from SK-136, a cell line that we developed from murine liver cancer. Characterization of the spheroids by electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry revealed large differences in the extracellular matrix and interstitial spacing, which correlated directly with nanotube penetration. This platform portends a new approach to characterize the permeability of living multicellular environments.","42":"Removal of oxidation debris for generating high purity functionalized carbon nanotubes (CNTs) has been a challenge, where base washing has been found to be an effective purification treatment. In this paper we report microwave induced reactive base wash (MRW) as a fast, green alternate to conventional filtrate washing. Carboxylated CNTs of three different dimensions were subjected to MRW and the results were compared to conventional base-wash. The results showed that MRW was an effective method for the removal of oxidation debris which reduced the reaction time from 4 hours to 20 min and alkali consumption by 75%. The CNTs from MRW were similar to those from conventional base wash in terms of dimensions, elemental composition, BET surface area and colloidal stability in aqueous media.","43":"Textured surfaces with periodic topographical features and long-range order are highly attractive for directing cell-material interactions. They mimic physiological environments more accurately than planar surfaces and can fundamentally alter cell alignment, shape, gene expression, and cellular assembly into superstructures or microtissues. Here we demonstrate for the first time that wrinkled graphene-based surfaces are suitable as textured cell attachment substrates, and that engineered wrinkling can dramatically alter cell alignment and morphology. The wrinkled surfaces are fabricated by graphene oxide wet deposition onto pre-stretched elastomers followed by relaxation and mild thermal treatment to stabilize the films in cell culture medium. Multilayer graphene oxide films form periodic, delaminated buckle textures whose wavelengths and amplitudes can be systematically tuned by variation in the wet deposition process. Human and murine fibroblasts attach to these textured films and remain viable, while developing pronounced alignment and elongation relative to those on planar graphene controls. Compared to lithographic patterning of nanogratings, this method has advantages in the simplicity and scalability of fabrication, as well as the opportunity to couple the use of topographic cues with the unique conductive, adsorptive, or barrier properties of graphene materials for functional biomedical devices.","44":null,"45":null,"46":null,"47":"The tetracyanoethylene oxide (TCNEO) functionalization of chemical vapor deposition grown large area graphene and graphite was performed using reaction of TCNEO with carbon surface in chlorobenzene. The successful functionalization has been confirmed by Raman and Auger spectroscopy, and by numerical modeling of the structure and vibrational modes of TCNEO-functionalized graphene. Raman spectra of TCNEO-functionalized graphene and graphite show several groups of lines corresponding to vibrations of attached carbonyl ylide. One of key signatures of TCNEO attachment is the high intensity Raman band at ~1450 cm-1, which represents the C-C=C in plane vibrations in functionalization-distorted graphene. Raman spectra indicate the existence of central (pristine) attachment of TCNEO to graphene surface.","48":null,"49":null,"50":"Thermal reduction of graphene oxide or graphite oxide (GO) is an important processing step in the fabrication of many graphene-based materials and devices. Here we show that some bulk solid GO samples can undergo explosive decomposition when small samples are heated slowly in inert gas environments, while others do not. These micro-explosions can occur for samples as small as few milligrams and are sufficiently energetic to cause laboratory equipment damage. Thermochemical analysis methods are used to understand the factors that lead to the explosive reduction mode. The studies show that the explosive mode of reduction is caused by the exothermicity of GO reduction coupled with a threshold sample mass\/size that causes heat and mass transfer limitations leading to local temperature rise and a thermal runaway reaction. The explosive mode of reduction is not caused or promoted by interstitial water, and its onset temperature can be lowered by immersion in potassium hydroxide solution. By allowing early release of internal gas pressure, the explosive mode reduces the extent of surface area development in GO exfoliation from an optimum value of 1470 m2g-1 obtained under non-explosive reduction conditions. Explosive reduction of bulk GO poses industrial safety hazards during large-scale storage, handling, and processing.","51":"A detailed analysis by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) of nitroxide-functionalized graphene oxide layers (GOFT) dispersed in Nylon 6 nanofibers is reported herein. The functionalization and exfoliation process of graphite oxide to GOFT was confirmed by TEM using electron diffraction patterns (EDP), wherein 1 to 4 graphene layers of GOFT were observed. The distribution and alignment of GOFT layers within a sample of Nylon 6 nanofiber reveals that GOFT platelets are mainly within the fiber, but some were partially protruding from it. Furthermore, Nylon 6 nanofibers exhibit an average diameter of 225 nm with several microns in length. GOFT platelets embedded into the fiber, the pristine fiber, and amorphous carbon were analyzed by EELS where each spectra [corresponding to the carbon edge (C-K)] exhibited changes in the fine structure, allowing a clear distinction between: i) GOFT single-layers, ii) Nylon-6 nanofibers, and iii) the carbon substrate. EELS analysis is presented here for the first time as a powerful tool to identify functionalized graphene single-layers (&lt; 4 layers of GOFT) into a Nylon 6 nanofiber composite.","52":"Graphene, an atomically thin material with the theoretical surface area of 2600 m2g-1, has great potential in the fields of catalysis, separation, and gas storage if properly assembled into functional 3D materials at large scale. In ideal non-interacting ensembles of non-porous multilayer graphene plates, the surface area can be adequately estimated using the simple geometric law ~ 2600 m2g-1\/N, where N is the number of graphene sheets per plate. Some processing operations, however, lead to secondary plate-plate stacking, folding, crumpling or pillaring, which give rise to more complex structures. Here we show that bulk samples of multilayer graphene plates stack in an irregular fashion that preserves the 2600\/N surface area and creates regular slot-like pores with sizes that are multiples of the unit plate thickness. In contrast, graphene oxide deposits into films with massive area loss (2600 to 40 m2g-1) due to nearly perfect alignment and stacking during the drying process. Pillaring graphene oxide sheets by co-deposition of colloidal-phase particle-based spacers has the potential to partially restore the large monolayer surface. Surface areas as high as 1000 m2g-1 are demonstrated here through colloidal-phase deposition of graphene oxide with water-dispersible aryl-sulfonated ultrafine carbon black as a pillaring agent.","53":"Atomic carbon chains have raised interest for their possible applications as graphene interconnectors as the thinnest nanowires; however, they are hard to synthesize and subsequently to study. We present here a reproducible method to synthesize carbon chains in situ TEM. Moreover, we present a direct observation of the bond length alternation in a pure carbon chain by aberration corrected TEM. Also, cross bonding between two carbon chains, 5 nm long, is observed experimentally and confirmed by DFT calculations. Finally, while free standing carbon chains were observed to be straight due to tensile loading, a carbon chain inside the walls of a carbon nanotube showed high flexibility.","54":"A facile method for preparing functionalized graphene oxide single layers with nitroxide groups is reported herein. Highly oxidized graphite oxide (GO=90.6%) was obtained, slightly modifying an improved Hummer's method. Oxoammonium salts (OS) were investigated to introduce nitroxide groups to GO, resulting in a one-step functionalization and exfoliation. The mechanisms of functionalization\/exfoliation are proposed, where the oxidation of aromatic alcohols to ketone groups, and the formation of alkoxyamine species are suggested. Two kinds of functionalized graphene oxide layers (GOFT1 and GOFT2) were obtained by controlling the amount of OS added. GOFT1 and GOFT2 exhibited a high interlayer spacing (d0001 = 1.12nm), which was determined by X-ray diffraction. The presence of new chemical bonds C-N (~9.5 %) and O-O (~4.3 %) from nitroxide attached onto graphene layers were observed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Single-layers of GOFT1 were observed by HRTEM, exhibiting amorphous and crystalline zones at a 50:50 ratio; in contrast, layers of GOFT2 exhibited a fully amorphous surface. Fingerprint of GOFT1 single layers was obtained by electron diffraction at several tilts. Finally, the potential use of these materials within Nylon 6 matrices was investigated, where an unusual simultaneous increase in tensile stress, tensile strain and Young's modulus was observed.","55":"Graphene has been the subject of intense research in recent years due to its unique electrical, optical and mechanical properties. Furthermore, it is expected that quantum dots of graphene would make their way into devices due to their structure and composition which unify graphene and quantum dots properties. Graphene quantum dots (GQDs) are planar nano flakes with a few atomic layers thick and with a higher surface-to-volume ratio than spherical carbon dots (CDs) of the same size. We have developed a pulsed laser synthesis (PLS) method for the synthesis of GQDs that are soluble in water, measure 2-6 nm across, and are about 1-3 layers thick. They show strong intrinsic fluorescence in the visible region. The source of fluorescence can be attributed to various factors, such as: quantum confinement, zigzag edge structure, and surface defects. Confocal microscopy images of bacteria exposed to GQDs show their suitability as biomarkers and nano-probes in high contrast bioimaging.","56":"Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have one of the highest production volumes among carbonaceous engineered nanoparticles (ENPs) worldwide and are have potential uses in applications including biomedicine, nanocomposites, and energy conversion. However, CNTs possible widespread usage and associated likelihood for biological exposures have driven concerns regarding their nanotoxicity and ecological impact. In this work, we probe the responses of planar suspended lipid bilayer membranes, used as model cell membranes, to functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT), CdSe\/ZnS quantum dots, and a control organic compound, melittin, using an electrophysiological measurement platform. The electrophysiological measurements show that MWCNTs in a concentration range of 1.6 to 12 ppm disrupt lipid membranes by inducing significant transmembrane current fluxes, which suggest that MWCNTs insert and traverse the lipid bilayer membrane, forming transmembrane carbon nanotubes channels that allow the transport of ions. This paper demonstrates a direct measurement of ion migration across lipid bilayers induced by CNTs. Electrophysiological measurements can provide unique insights into the lipid bilayer-ENPs interactions and have the potential to serve as a preliminary screening tool for nanotoxicity.","57":"The benzyne functionalization of chemical vapor deposition grown large area graphene and graphite was performed using a mixture of o-trimethylsilylphenyl triflate and cesium fluoride that react with the carbon surface. The reaction requires at least 2 days of treatment before the appearance of Raman and energy-dispersive X-ray spectral signatures that verify modification. Raman spectra of modified graphene and graphite show a rich structure of lines corresponding to C=C-C, C-H, and low frequency modes of surface-attached benzyne rings.","58":"We report a simple method to fabricate macroscopic, 3-D, free standing, all-carbon scaffolds (porous structures) using multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) as the starting materials. The scaffolds prepared by radical initiated thermal crosslinking, and annealing of MWCNTs possess macroscale interconnected pores, robust structural integrity, stability, and conductivity. The porosity of the three-dimensional structure can be controlled by varying the amount of radical initiator, thereby allowing the design of porous scaffolds tailored towards specific potential applications. This method also allows the fabrication of 3-D scaffolds using other carbon nanomaterials such as single-walled carbon nanotubes, fullerenes, and graphene indicating that it could be used as a versatile method for 3-D assembly of carbon nanostructures with pi bond networks.","59":null,"60":"Better understanding of electron transfer (ET) taking place at the nano-bio interface can guide design of more effective functional materials used in fuel cells, biosensors, and medical devices. Single-walled carbon nanotube (SWCNT) coupled with biological enzymes serves as a model system for studying the ET mechanism, as demonstrated in the present study. SWCNT enhanced the activity of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in the solution-based redox reaction by binding to HRP at a site proximate to the enzyme's activity center and participating in the ET process. ET to and from SWCNT was clearly observable using near-infrared spectroscopy. The capability of SWCNT in receiving electrons and the direct attachment of HRP to the surface of SWCNT strongly affected the enzyme activity due to the direct involvement of SWCNT in ET.","61":"Uniform ultrathin Pt films were electrodeposited onto an aligned array of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) for high-area chemically stable methanol fuel cell anodes. Electrochemical treatment of the graphitic CNT surfaces by diazoniumbenzoic acid allowed for uniform Pt electroplating. The mass activity of the Pt thin film can reach 400 A\/g at a scan rate of 20 mV\/s and in a solution of 1 M CH3OH\/0.5 M H2SO4. A programmed pulse potential at 0V was also seen to nearly eliminate the effects of carbon monoxide poisoning. The mass activity of Pt for methanol oxidation can be maintained at 300 A\/g for more than 3000 s, which is 19 times of that under a constant potential of 0.7 V (vs Ag\/AgCl).","62":null,"63":"Micro\/mesoporous activated carbons containing oxygen and phosphorus heteroatoms were modified by incorporation of nitrogen using melamine and urea precursors. The surface chemistry was analyzed by the means of elemental analysis, XPS, and (31)P MAS NMR. The results indicate that upon the incorporation of nitrogen at high temperatures not only new species involving carbon\/nitrogen\/oxygen are formed but also the phosphorous environment is significantly altered. Both urea and melamine precursors have similar effects on formation of P-N and P-C bonds. These compounds, although present in small but measurable quantities seem to affect the performance of carbons in electrochemical capacitors. With an increase in the heterogeneity of phosphorus containing species and with a decrease in the content pyrophosphates the capacitance increases and the retention ratio of the capacitor is improved.","64":"Recent research has led to increased concern about the potential adverse human health impacts of carbon nanotubes, and further work is needed to better characterize those risks and develop risk management strategies. One of the most important determinants of the chronic pathogenic potential of a respirable fiber is its biological durability, which affects the long-term dose retained in the lungs, or biopersistence. The present article characterizes the biodurability of single-walled carbon nanotubes using an in vitro assay simulating the phagolysosome. Biodurability is observed to depend on the chemistry of nanotube surface functionalization. Single-walled nanotubes with carboxylated surfaces are unique in their ability to undergo 90-day degradation in a phagolysosomal simulant leading to length reduction and accumulation of ultrafine solid carbonaceous debris. Unmodified, ozone-treated, and aryl-sulfonated tubes do not degrade under these conditions. We attribute the difference to the unique chemistry of acid carboxylation, which not only introduces COOH surface groups, but also causes collateral damage to the tubular graphenic backbone in the form of neighboring active sites that provide points of attack for further oxidative degradation. These results suggest the strategic use of surface carboxylation in nanotube applications where biodegradation may improve safety or add function.","65":"There is substantial evidence for toxicity and\/or carcinogenicity upon inhalation of pure transition metals in fine particulate form. Carbon nanotube catalyst residues may trigger similar metal-mediated toxicity, but only if the metal is bioavailable and not fully encapsulated within fluid-protective carbon shells. Recent studies have documented the presence of bioavailable iron and nickel in a variety of commercial as-produced and vendor \"purified\" nanotubes, and the present article examines techniques to avoid or remove this bioavailable metal. First, data are presented on the mechanisms potentially responsible for free metal in \"purified\" samples, including kinetic limitations during metal dissolution, the re-deposition or adsorption of metal on nanotube outer surfaces, and carbon shell damage during last-step oxidation or one-pot purification. Optimized acid treatment protocols are presented for targeting the free metal, considering the effects of acid strength, composition, time, and conditions for post-treatment water washing. Finally, after optimized acid treatment, it is shown that the remaining, non-bioavailable (encapsulated) metal persists in a stable and biologically unavailable form up to two months in an in vitro biopersistence assay, suggesting that simple removal of bioavailable (free) metal is a promising strategy for reducing nanotube health risks.","66":"A set of carbon materials was treated by a choice of common oxidizers to investigate the mercury capture capacities at varying temperature conditions. It was found that ozone treatment dramatically increases the mercury capture capacity of carbon surfaces by factors up to 134, but the activity is easily destroyed by exposure to the atmosphere, to water vapor, or by mild heating. Freshly ozone-treated carbon surfaces are shown to oxidize iodide to iodine in solution and this ability fades with aging. FTIR analysis shows broad C-O stretch features from 950 to 1300 cm(-1), which decay upon atmospheric exposure and are similar to the C-O-C asymmetric stretch features of ethylene secondary ozonide. The combined results suggest that the ultra-high mercury capture efficiency is due to a subset of labile C-O functional groups with residual oxidizing power that are likely epoxides or (epoxide-containing) secondary ozonides. The results open the possibility for in situ ozonolysis to create high-performance carbon-based Hg sorbents.","67":"This work investigates the physical interactions between carbon nanomaterials and tocopheryl polyethylene glycol succinate (TPGS). TPGS is a synthetic amphiphile that undergoes enzymatic cleavage to deliver the lipophilic antioxidant, alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) to cell membranes, and is FDA approved as a water-soluble vitamin E nutritional supplement and drug delivery vehicle. Here we show that TPGS 1000 is capable of dispersing multi-wall and single-wall carbon nanotubes in aqueous media, and for multiwall tubes is more effective than the commonly used non-ionic surfactant Triton X-100. TPGS is also capable of solubilizing C(60) in aqueous phases by dissolving fullerene in the core of its spherical micelles. Drying of these solutions leads to fullerene\/TPGS phase separation and the self-assembly of highly ordered asymmetric nanoparticles, with fullerene nanocrystals attached to the hydrophobic end of crystalline TPGS nanobrushes. The article discusses surface charge, colloidal stability, and the potential applications of TPGS as a safe surfactant for \"green\" processing of carbon nanomaterials.","68":null,"69":"A nanoassembly of single-walled carbon nanotubes coated by a thin layer of silica followed by quantum dots was prepared. That the quantum dots retained their photoluminescent properties after deposition onto the silylated carbon nanotubes suggests that the thin layer of silica prevented the quenching of the fluorescence by the nanotubes. This fluorescent nanoassembly represents an excellent building block for photoelectric and optical devices and biological nanoprobes.","70":"Precise arrangement of nanoscale elements within larger systems, is essential to controlling higher order functionality and tailoring nanophase material properties. Here, we present findings on growth conditions for vertically aligned carbon nanofibers that enable synthesis of high density arrays and individual rows of nanofibers, which could be used to form barriers for restricting molecular transport, that have regular spacings and few defects. Growth through plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition was initiated from precisely formed nickel catalyst dots of varying diameter and spacing that were patterned through electron beam lithography. Nanofiber growth conditions, including power, precursor gas ratio, growth temperature and pressure were varied to optimize fiber uniformity and minimize defects that result from formation and migration of catalyst particles prior to growth. It was determined that both catalyst dot diameter and initial plasma power have a considerable influence on the number and severity of defects, while growth temperature, gas ratio (C(2)H(2):NH(3)) and pressure can be varied within a considerable range to fine-tune nanofiber morphology."},"articletitle":{"0":"Structure-Activity Relationship of Carbon Nitride Dots in Inhibiting Tau Aggregation.","1":"3D-printed graphene polylactic acid devices resistant to SARS-CoV-2: Sunlight-mediated sterilization of additive manufactured objects.","2":"Mechanical and Viscoelastic Properties of Wrinkled Graphene Reinforced Polymer Nanocomposites - Effect of Interlayer Sliding within Graphene Sheets.","3":"Controlling pore structure and conductivity in graphene nanosheet films through partial thermal exfoliation.","4":"A THz graphene metasurface for polarization selective virus sensing.","5":"Shear Failure in Supported Two-Dimensional Nanosheet Van der Waals Thin Films.","6":"Explosive Fragmentation of Luminescent Diamond Particles.","7":"Nanostructure Transition of Young Soot Aggregates to Mature Soot Aggregates in Diluted Diffusion Flames.","8":"Establishing structure-property-hazard relationships for multi-walled carbon nanotubes: the role of aggregation, surface charge, and oxidative stress on embryonic zebrafish mortality.","9":"Carbon nanospikes have better electrochemical properties than carbon nanotubes due to greater surface roughness and defect sites.","10":"Carbon nanotube bottles for incorporation, release and enhanced cytotoxic effect of cisplatin.","11":"Gateless and reversible carrier density tunability in epitaxial graphene devices functionalized with chromium tricarbonyl.","12":"Bulk-state and single-particle imaging are central to understanding carbon dot photo-physics and elucidating the effects of precursor composition and reaction temperature.","13":"Atypical Quantized Resistances in Millimeter-Scale Epitaxial Graphene p-n Junctions.","14":"Manganese deception on graphene and implications in catalysis.","15":"Chemistry below graphene: decoupling epitaxial graphene from metals by potential-controlled electrochemical oxidation.","16":"Synthesis and Characterization of Graphite-Encapsulated Iron Nanoparticles from Ball Milling-Assisted Low-Pressure Chemical Vapor Deposition.","17":"Graphene as a functional layer for semiconducting carbon nanotube transistor sensors.","18":"Environmental aging and degradation of multiwalled carbon nanotube reinforced polypropylene.","19":"Modified Facile Synthesis for Quantitatively Fluorescent Carbon Dots.","20":"Enhanced durability of carbon nanotube grafted hierarchical ceramic microfiber-reinforced epoxy composites.","21":"In-Situ Formation of Holmium Oxide in Pores of Mesoporous Carbon Nanoparticles as Substrates for Neutron-Activatable Radiotherapeutics.","22":"Epitaxial graphene homogeneity and quantum Hall effect in millimeter-scale devices.","23":"Thermally conductive thin films derived from defect free graphene-natural rubber latex nanocomposite: Preparation and properties.","24":"Exposure of few layer graphene to Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri modifies the graphene and changes its bioaccumulation by other organisms.","25":"Correlation between X-ray diffraction and Raman spectra of 16 commercial graphene-based materials and their resulting classification.","26":"Growth of Monolayer Graphene on Nanoscale Copper-Nickel Alloy Thin Films.","27":"Impact of UV irradiation on multiwall carbon nanotubes in nanocomposites: formation of entangled surface layer and mechanisms of release resistance.","28":"High-quality PVD graphene growth by fullerene decomposition on Cu foils.","29":"Synthesis of graphene oxide membranes and their behavior in water and isopropanol.","30":"NanoRelease: Pilot interlaboratory comparison of a weathering protocol applied to resilient and labile polymers with and without embedded carbon nanotubes.","31":"Thermochemistry and kinetics of graphite oxide exothermic decomposition for safety in large-scale storage and processing.","32":"Influence of External Heating Rate on the Structure and Porosity of Thermally Exfoliated Graphite Oxide.","33":"Fe-catalyzed etching of exfoliated graphite through carbon hydrogenation.","34":"Detecting Carbon in Carbon: Exploiting Differential Charging to Obtain Information on the Chemical Identity and Spatial Location of Carbon Nanotube Aggregates in Composites by Imaging X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy.","35":"Graphene and water-based elastomers thin-film composites by dip-moulding.","36":"Retention of 14C-labeled multiwall carbon nanotubes by humic acid and polymers: Roles of macromolecule properties.","37":"Functionalized graphene oxide in microbial engineering: An effective stimulator for bacterial growth.","38":"Radical scavenging reaction kinetics with multiwalled carbon nanotubes.","39":"Differentiation of chemical reaction activity of various carbon nanotubes using redox potential: Classification by physical and chemical structures.","40":"Detection and quantification of 2H and 3R phases in commercial graphene-based materials.","41":"Photoluminescent carbon nanotubes interrogate the permeability of multicellular tumor spheroids.","42":"Microwave Induced Reactive Base Wash for the Removal of Oxidation Debris from Carboxylated Carbon Nanotubes.","43":"Wrinkled, wavelength-tunable graphene-based surface topographies for directing cell alignment and morphology.","44":"Purification, separation and extraction of inner tubes from double-walled carbon nanotubes by tailoring density gradient ultracentrifugation using optical probes.","45":"Ordered phases of ethylene adsorbed on charged fullerenes and their aggregates.","46":"Multi-walled carbon nanotube length as a critical determinant of bioreactivity with primary human pulmonary alveolar cells.","47":"Tetracyanoethylene oxide- functionalized graphene and graphite characterized by Raman and Auger spectroscopy.","48":"The importance of an extensive elemental analysis of single-walled carbon nanotube soot.","49":"Filtration and inactivation of aerosolized bacteriophage MS2 by a CNT air filter fabricated using electro-aerodynamic deposition.","50":"Explosive thermal reduction of graphene oxide-based materials: mechanism and safety implications.","51":"EELS Analysis of Nylon 6 Nanofibers Reinforced with Nitroxide-Functionalized Graphene Oxide.","52":"Porous Structures in Stacked, Crumpled and Pillared Graphene-Based 3D Materials.","53":"New insights into the properties and interactions of carbon chains as revealed by HRTEM and DFT analysis.","54":"Nitroxide-Functionalized Graphene Oxide from Graphite Oxide.","55":"Luminescent graphene quantum dots fabricated by pulsed laser synthesis.","56":"Disruption of Model Cell Membranes by Carbon Nanotubes.","57":"Benzyne-functionalized graphene and graphite characterized by Raman spectroscopy and energy dispersive X-ray analysis.","58":"Fabrication and Characterization of Three-Dimensional Macroscopic All-Carbon Scaffolds.","59":"The production of oxygenated polycrystalline graphene by one-step ethanol-chemical vapor deposition.","60":"Enhanced enzyme activity through electron transfer between single-walled carbon nanotubes and horseradish peroxidase.","61":"Catalytic Activity of Ultrathin Pt Films on Aligned Carbon Nanotube Arrays.","62":"Anisotropic conductivity of magnetic carbon nanotubes embedded in epoxy matrices.","63":"Effect of surface phosphorus functionalities of activated carbons containing oxygen and nitrogen on electrochemical capacitance.","64":"Biodurability of Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes Depends on Surface Functionalization.","65":"Targeted Removal of Bioavailable Metal as a Detoxification Strategy for Carbon Nanotubes.","66":"High capacity mercury adsorption on freshly ozone-treated carbon surfaces.","67":"Tocopheryl Polyethylene Glycol Succinate as a Safe, Antioxidant Surfactant for Processing Carbon Nanotubes and Fullerenes.","68":"In vivo evaluation of carbon fullerene toxicity using embryonic zebrafish.","69":"Noncovalently silylated carbon nanotubes decorated with quantum dots.","70":"Positional control of catalyst nanoparticles for the synthesis of high density carbon nanofiber arrays."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Carbon","1":"Carbon","2":"Carbon","3":"Carbon","4":"Carbon","5":"Carbon","6":"Carbon","7":"Carbon","8":"Carbon","9":"Carbon","10":"Carbon","11":"Carbon","12":"Carbon","13":"Carbon","14":"Carbon","15":"Carbon","16":"Carbon","17":"Carbon","18":"Carbon","19":"Carbon","20":"Carbon","21":"Carbon","22":"Carbon","23":"Carbon","24":"Carbon","25":"Carbon","26":"Carbon","27":"Carbon","28":"Carbon","29":"Carbon","30":"Carbon","31":"Carbon","32":"Carbon","33":"Carbon","34":"Carbon","35":"Carbon","36":"Carbon","37":"Carbon","38":"Carbon","39":"Carbon","40":"Carbon","41":"Carbon","42":"Carbon","43":"Carbon","44":"Carbon","45":"Carbon","46":"Carbon","47":"Carbon","48":"Carbon","49":"Carbon","50":"Carbon","51":"Carbon","52":"Carbon","53":"Carbon","54":"Carbon","55":"Carbon","56":"Carbon","57":"Carbon","58":"Carbon","59":"Carbon","60":"Carbon","61":"Carbon","62":"Carbon","63":"Carbon","64":"Carbon","65":"Carbon","66":"Carbon","67":"Carbon","68":"Carbon","69":"Carbon","70":"Carbon"},"keyword":{"0":"","1":"GrapheneNIR light SterilizationNanotechnologySARS-CoV-2 inhibitionScaffolds","2":"coarse-grained molecular dynamicsinterlayer slidingviscoelastic propertieswrinkled graphene sheets-reinforced polymer nanocomposites","3":"Partial thermal exfoliationPlanar, textured, and confined graphene nanosheet films","4":"BiosensorsGrapheneSurface plasmon polaritonTerahertzVirus sensing","5":"Two-dimensional materialsgraphenemechanical propertiesthin films","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"heteroatom-doped graphenemetal-free catalystmetal-free grapheneoxygen reduction reaction","15":"decouplingelectrochemistrygrapheneintercalationmetals","16":"","17":"Aqueous ammonium sensorCarbon nanotubesDiazonium chemistryGrapheneHybrid structure","18":"Melting-crystallization pointsPolypropylene MWCNTWeathering Activation energy","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"Adsorption-induced molecular dopingCarrier densityEpitaxial grapheneLow-energy electron microscopyQuantized Hall effectRaman microscopyStrainTransport mobility","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"Carbon NanotubesDifferential chargingHyperspectral imagingImaging XPSX-ray photoelectron spectroscopycomposites","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":""},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng","6":"eng","7":"eng","8":"eng","9":"eng","10":"eng","11":"eng","12":"eng","13":"eng","14":"eng","15":"eng","16":"eng","17":"eng","18":"eng","19":"eng","20":"eng","21":"eng","22":"eng","23":"eng","24":"eng","25":"eng","26":"eng","27":"eng","28":"eng","29":"eng","30":"eng","31":"eng","32":"eng","33":"eng","34":"eng","35":"eng","36":"eng","37":"eng","38":"eng","39":"eng","40":"eng","41":"eng","42":"eng","43":"eng","44":"eng","45":"eng","46":"eng","47":"eng","48":"eng","49":"eng","50":"eng","51":"eng","52":"eng","53":"eng","54":"eng","55":"eng","56":"eng","57":"eng","58":"eng","59":"eng","60":"eng","61":"eng","62":"eng","63":"eng","64":"eng","65":"eng","66":"eng","67":"eng","68":"eng","69":"eng","70":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":35463198,"1":35313599,"2":33776064,"3":33633411,"4":33612849,"5":33223559,"6":32863395,"7":32863394,"8":32863393,"9":31588146,"10":31105316,"11":31097837,"12":34795455,"13":32165760,"14":30270930,"15":30190626,"16":29434378,"17":29307897,"18":32831356,"19":29176908,"20":29170562,"21":28966368,"22":28924301,"23":28775386,"24":28694548,"25":28690336,"26":28669999,"27":28603293,"28":28507390,"29":31130736,"30":30147114,"31":28090118,"32":28042164,"33":27840449,"34":27765956,"35":27594706,"36":27458320,"37":35431318,"38":27030782,"39":26783369,"40":28316338,"41":26456974,"42":25870459,"43":25848137,"44":25843961,"45":25843960,"46":25780270,"47":25484371,"48":25110357,"49":32226084,"50":25018560,"51":24634536,"52":26478597,"53":24363453,"54":24347671,"55":27570249,"56":31007268,"57":23505324,"58":23436939,"59":22408276,"60":22228910,"61":25132685,"62":23019381,"63":20354586,"64":20352066,"65":19255622,"66":19255621,"67":19081834,"68":18670586,"69":18311318,"70":19448842},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2022,"2":2021,"3":2021,"4":2021,"5":2021,"6":2020,"7":2020,"8":2019,"9":2019,"10":2019,"11":2019,"12":2019,"13":2019,"14":2018,"15":2018,"16":2017,"17":2017,"18":2018,"19":2017,"20":2017,"21":2017,"22":2017,"23":2017,"24":2016,"25":2017,"26":2017,"27":2017,"28":2017,"29":2017,"30":2017,"31":2016,"32":2017,"33":2016,"34":2016,"35":2016,"36":2016,"37":2016,"38":2015,"39":2015,"40":2015,"41":2016,"42":2015,"43":2016,"44":2014,"45":2014,"46":2014,"47":2015,"48":2014,"49":2014,"50":2014,"51":2014,"52":2014,"53":2014,"54":2013,"55":2013,"56":2013,"57":2013,"58":2013,"59":2011,"60":2012,"61":2011,"62":2011,"63":2009,"64":2010,"65":2008,"66":2008,"67":2007,"68":2007,"69":2007,"70":2008}}