{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54,"55":55,"56":56,"57":57,"58":58,"59":59,"60":60,"61":61,"62":62,"63":63,"64":64,"65":65,"66":66,"67":67,"68":68,"69":69,"70":70,"71":71,"72":72,"73":73,"74":74,"75":75,"76":76,"77":77,"78":78,"79":79,"80":80,"81":81,"82":82,"83":83},"abstracttext":{"0":null,"1":"The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the need for diversity in the market and alternative materials for personal protective equipment (PPE). Paper has high coatability for tunable barrier performance, and an agile production process, making it a potential substitute for polyolefin-derived PPE materials. Bleached and newsprint papers were laminated with polyethylene (PE) coatings of different thicknesses, and characterised for their potential use as medical gowns for healthcare workers and COVID-19 patients. Thicker PE lamination improved coating homogeneity and water vapour resistance. 49 GSM bleached paper with 16 GSM PE coating showed high tensile and seam strength, and low water vapour transmission rate (WVTR). Phi-X174 bacteriophage testing revealed that paper laminated with 15 GSM coating hinders virus penetration. This research demonstrates that PE laminated paper is a promising material for low cost viral protective gowns.","2":"Site-specific cobaltocenium-labeled polymers are synthesized by reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization using cobaltocenium-labeled chain transfer agents. These chain transfer agents show counterion-dependent solubility. Based on the chemical structure of the chain transfer agents, single cobaltocenium moieties are dictated to be in predetermined locations at either the center or terminals of the polymer chains. Polymerization of hydrophobic monomers (methyl methacrylate, methyl acrylate and styrene) and hydrophilic monomers (2-(dimethylamino)ethyl methacrylate and methacrylic acid) is demonstrated to follow a controlled manner based on kinetic studies. Cobaltocenium-labeled polymers with molecular weights greater than 100,000 Da can be prepared by using a difunctional chain transfer agent. Photophysical properties, electrochemical properties, thermal properties and morphology of the cobaltocenium-labeled polymers are also investigated.","3":"This review covers the applications of mass spectrometry (MS) and its hyphenated techniques to characterize polyurethane (PU) synthetic polymers and their respective hard and soft segments. PUs are commonly composed of hard segments including methylene bisphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) and toluene diisocyanate (TDI), and soft segments including polyester and polyether polyols. This literature review highlights MS techniques such as electrospray ionization (ESI), matrix assisted laser\/desorption ionization (MALDI), ion mobility-mass spectrometry (IM-MS), and computational methods that have been used for the characterization of this polymer system. Here we review specific case studies where MS techniques have elucidated unique features pertaining to the makeup and structural integrity of complex PU materials and PU precursors.","4":"Polyurethane (PU) di-block copolymers are one of the most versatile polymeric materials, comprised of hard and soft segments that contribute to PU's broad range of applications. Polybutylene adipate (PBA) is a commonly used soft segment in PU systems. Characterizing the structure of PBA polymers is essential to understanding complex heterogeneity within a PU sample. In this study, ion mobility-mass spectrometry (IM-MS) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS\/MS) are used to structurally characterize a PBA standard (Mn = 2250) adducted with a combination of monovalent alkali cations (Li, Na, K, Rb, and Cs). IM-MS profiles show unique trends associated with each cation-adducted PBA sample. Charge state trends: +1, +2, and +3 were extracted for cation-adducted PBA oligomers, and investigated to study gas-phase transitional folding. To quantitatively assess the gas-phase structural similarities and differences, a statistical test (ANOVA) was used to compare PBA oligomer-cation collisional cross sections (CCS). Fragmentation studies (MS\/MS) identified the unique behavior of Li and Na for promoting 1,5 H-shift and 1,3 H-shift fragmentation, whereas the PBA precursor preferentially loses the larger K, Rb, and Cs cations as the ion activation energy is increased. The combination of adducted alkali cations, IM-MS, and MS\/MS allow for unique structural characterization of this important PBA system.","5":null,"6":null,"7":"Material extrusion additive manufacturing processes force molten polymer through a printer nozzle at high (&gt; 100 s-1) wall shear rates prior to cooling and crystallization. These high shear rates can lead to flow-induced crystallization in common polymer processing techniques, but the magnitude and importance of this effect is unknown for additive manufacturing. A significant barrier to understanding this process is the lack of in situ measurement techniques to quantify crystallinity after polymer filament extrusion. To address this issue, we use a combination of infrared thermography and Raman spectroscopy to measure the temperature and percent crystallinity of extruded polycaprolactone during additive manufacturing. We quantify crystallinity as a function of time for the nozzle temperatures and filament feed rates accessible to the apparatus. Crystallization is shown to occur faster at higher shear rates and lower nozzle temperatures, which shows that processing conditions can have a dramatic effect on crystallization kinetics in additive manufacturing.","8":"A major challenge in developing drug-releasing electrospun nanofibers is obtaining long-term drug release over many weeks with no burst release of drug. Here, we present new methods capable of prolonging the diffusive release of small molecule drugs from electrospun poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) nanofibers. The methods focus on removal of retained electrospinning solvent through fiber heating, maintaining fibers in a laboratory setting, or a combination of these methods. These post-fabrication methods altered the release characteristics of a model small molecule drug, 6-aminonicotinamide (6AN), from PLLA fibers. Specifically, untreated fibers released 6AN over 9 days, and fibers that underwent a combined treatment of maintenance in a laboratory setting and heating released 6AN over 44 days. The unique and simple method presented here prolongs diffusive release of a small molecule drug from electrospun fibers and has potential to assist in lengthening small molecule drug release from a variety of polymeric nanomaterials.","9":"Electrospinning has become a widely-used method for fabricating polymer nanofibers for various applications including filtration, drug delivery, and tissue engineering. Due to the high extensional forces during the electrospinning process, and the rapid crystallization and solidification during solvent evaporation, molecular orientation may develop within the resulting fibers. The properties of electrospun fibers are expected to be sensitive to level of orientation in the fibers. Various reports have shown an increased modulus with decreased fiber diameter, and molecular orientation has been used to explain this trend. However, there have been relatively few studies of the detailed relationship between fiber diameter and molecular orientation, especially at the single fiber level. Here we report a quantitative study of the orientation in individual electrospun poly(caprolactone) (PCL) and poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) fibers using low-dose electron microscopy and diffraction techniques. Our results confirmed that for electrospun fibers of PCL and PLLA processed under similar experimental conditions, the molecular orientation decreased as the fiber diameter increased. The extent of orientation remained high for quite large fiber diameters, with azimuthal orientation of 20 degrees seen up to ~500 nm for PCL and ~2000 nm for PLLA.","10":"An algorithm capable of incorporating multi-step reaction mechanisms into atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations using traditional fixed valence force fields is proposed and implemented within the framework of LAMMPS (Large-scale Atomic Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator). This extension, referred to as fix bond\/react, enables bonding topology modifications during a running MD simulation using pre- and post-reaction bonding templates to carry out a pre-specified reaction. Candidate reactants are first identified by interatomic separation, followed by the application of a generalized topology matching algorithm to confirm they match the pre-reaction template. This is followed by a topology conversion to match the post-reaction template and a dynamic relaxation to minimize high energy configurations. Two case studies, the condensation polymerization of nylon 6,6 and the formation of a highly-crosslinked epoxy, are simulated to demonstrate the robustness, stability, and speed of the algorithm. Improvements which could increase its utility are discussed.","11":"Novel fast response shape-memory polyurethanes were prepared from bio-based polyols, diphenyl methane diisocyanate and butane diol for the first time. The bio-based polyester polyols were synthesized from 9-hydroxynonanoic acid, a product obtained by ozonolysis of fatty acids extracted from soy oil and castor oil. The morphology of polyurethanes was investigated by synchrotron ultra-small angle X-ray scattering, which revealed the inter-domain spacing between the hard and soft phases, the degree of phase separation, and the level of intermixing between the hard and soft phases. We also conducted thorough investigations of the thermal, mechanical, and dielectric properties of the polyurethanes, and found that high crystallization rate of the soft segment gives these polyurethanes unique properties suitable for shape-memory applications, such as adjustable transition temperatures, high degree of elastic elongations, and good mechanical strength. These materials are also potentially biodegradable and biocompatible, therefore suitable for biomedical and environmental applications.","12":null,"13":"Raman spectroscopy is a popular method for non-invasive analysis of biomaterials containing polycaprolactone in applications such as tissue engineering and drug delivery. However there remain fundamental challenges in interpretation of such spectra in the context of existing dielectric spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry results in both the melt and semi-crystalline states. In this work, we develop a thermodynamically informed analysis method which utilizes basis spectra - ideal spectra of the polymer chain conformers comprising the measured Raman spectrum. In polycaprolactone we identify three basis spectra in the carbonyl region; measurement of their temperature dependence shows that one is linearly proportional to crystallinity, a second correlates with dipole-dipole interactions that are observed in dielectric spectroscopy and a third which correlates with amorphous chain behavior. For other spectral regions, e.g. C-COO stretch, a comparison of the basis spectra to those from density functional theory calculations in the all-trans configuration allows us to indicate whether sharp spectral peaks can be attributed to single chain modes in the all-trans state or to crystalline order. Our analysis method is general and should provide important insights to other polymeric materials.","14":"Large volume deficiencies in skeletal muscle tissue fail to heal with conservative treatments, and improved treatment methods are needed. Tissue engineered scaffolds for skeletal muscle need to mimic the optimal environment for muscle development by providing the proper electric, mechanical, and chemical cues. Electroactive polymers, polymers that change in size or shape in response to an electric field, may be able to provide the optimal environment for muscle growth. In this study, an electroactive polymer made from poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate (PEGDA) and acrylic acid (AA) is characterized and optimized for movement and biocompatibility. Hydrogel sample thickness, overall polymer concentration, and the ratio of PEGDA to AA were found to significantly impact the actuation response. C2C12 mouse myoblast cells attached and proliferated on hydrogel samples with various ratios of PEGDA to AA. Future experiments will produce hydrogel samples combined with aligned guidance cues in the form of electrospun fibers to provide a favorable environment for muscle development.","15":"Due to their unique characteristics such as multifold change of volume in response to minute change in the environment, resemblance of soft biological tissues, ability to operate in wet environments, and chemical tailorability, stimuli responsive gels represent a versatile and very promising class of materials for sensors, muscle-type actuators, biomedical applications, and autonomous intelligent structures. Success of these materials in practical applications largely depends on their ability to fulfill application-specific mechanical requirements. This article provides an overview of recent application-driven development of covalent polymer gels with special emphasis on the relevant mechanical factors and properties. A short account of mechanisms of gel swelling and mechanical characteristics of importance to stimuli-responsive gels is presented. The review highlights major barriers for wider application of these materials and discusses latest advances and potential future directions toward overcoming these barriers, including interpenetrating networks, homogeneous networks, nanocomposites, and nanofilamentary gels.","16":"In a previous study, we demonstrated the feasibility of retaining poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (pNIPAAm) on hydroxylated surfaces by spin-coating a blend of pNIPAAm with a small amount of 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES), an organosilane, followed by thermal annealing. In this study, we detail the conditions for retaining pNIPAAm films by APTES. Our results show that the difference in surface energy between pNIPAAm and APTES in the blended film resulted in the segregation of APTES molecules to the film\/substrate interface, as verified by XPS, during annealing, and the segregated APTES molecules cross-linked to form the APTES network, thus entrapping pNIPAAm. The retained pNIPAAm films (25-35 nm) exhibited thermo-responsive behavior, determined by water contact angles and film thickness in water at temperatures above and below the lower critical solution temperature of pNIPAAm, as well as good cell attachment and rapid detachment (&lt;10 minutes). The gained insights would allow a better design of these thermo-responsive surfaces for cell sheet engineering and other relevant applications.","17":"In computational materials science, predicting the yield strain of crosslinked polymers remains a challenging task. A common approach is to identify yield as the first critical point of stress-strain curves simulated by molecular dynamics (MD). However, in such cases the underlying data can be excessively noisy, making it difficult to extract meaningful results. In this work, we propose an alternate method for identifying yield on the basis of deformation-recovery simulations. Notably, the corresponding raw data (i.e. residual strains) produce a sharper signal for yield via a transition in their global behavior. We analyze this transition by non-linear regression of computational data to a hyperbolic model. As part of this analysis, we also propose uncertainty quantification techniques for assessing when and to what extent the simulated data is informative of yield. Moreover, we show how the method directly tests for yield via the onset of permanent deformation and discuss recent experimental results, which compare favorably with our predictions.","18":"A novel glucose-sensitive chitosan-polyethylene oxide (CS\/PEO =1:0.5~1:2.5) hydrogel with controlled release of metronidazole (MNZ) was obtained by chemical cross-linking and immobilization of glucose oxidase (GOx). The hydrogel was characterized by Fourier-transformed infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), compressive mechanical test, rheological analysis, cytotoxicity test, and antibacterial test against Porphyromonas gingivalis. The study found that the CS-PEO composite hydrogel possessed significantly better mechanical properties and biocompatibility than a single-component hydrogel. This might result from the physical cross-linking and formation of semi-interpenetrating network (semi-IPN). In addition, this novel hydrogel has self-regulate ability to release MNZ in response to the environmental glucose stimulus. Specifically, it released more drugs at higher glucose concentration, thus can lead to a greater ability to inhibit Porphyromonas gingivalis. This study has demonstrated the glucose-sensitive antibacterial hydrogel has a great potential as a new therapeutic material for treatment or prevention of periodontitis in diabetic patients.","19":"The development of efficacious carriers is an important long-standing challenge in gene therapy. In the past few decades, tremendous progress has been made toward non-viral vectors for gene delivery including cationic lipids and polymers. However, there continues to be a need for clinically translatable polymer-based delivery carriers because they offer tunable degradation profiles and functional groups, diverse structures\/morphologies, and scalability in preparation. Herein, we developed a library of 144 degradable polymers with varying amine and hydrophobic content via a facile method that involves thiobutyrolactone aminolysis and consequent thiol-(meth)acrylate or acrylamide addition in one-pot. The polymer platform was evaluated for pDNA and siRNA delivery to HeLa cells in vitro. Hydrophobically modified 5S, 2E1, 6CY1, 5CY2, and 2M1 grafted HEMATL polymers are capable of delivering pDNA depending on the chemical composition and the size of the polyplexes. Hydrophobically modified 5S and 2B grafted HEMATL and 5S grafted ATL polymers exhibit capability for siRNA delivery that approaches the efficacy of commercially available transfection reagents. Due to tunable functionality and scalable preparation, this synthetic approach may have broad applicability in the design of delivery materials for gene therapy.","20":null,"21":"Poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate (PEGDA) hydrogels are widely used in biotechnology due to their in situ crosslinking capacity and tunable physical properties. However, as with all single component hydrogels, the modulus of PEGDA networks cannot be tailored independently of mesh size. This interdependence places significant limitations on their use for defined, 3D cell-microenvironment studies and for certain controlled release applications. The incorporation of secondary reactive species (SRS) into PEGDA hydrogels has previously been shown to allow the identification of up to 6 PEGDA hydrogel formulations for which distinct moduli can be obtained at consistent average mesh size (or vice versa). However, the modulus and mesh size ranges which can be probed by these formulations are quite restricted. This work presents an in-depth study of SRS incorporation into PEGDA hydrogels, with the goal of expanding the space for which \"decoupled\" examination of modulus and mesh size effects is achievable. Towards this end, over 100 PEGDA hydrogels containing either N-vinyl pyrrolidone or star PEG-tetraacrylate as SRS were characterized. To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate that SRS incorporation allows for the identification of a number of modulus ranges that can be probed at consistent average mesh size (or vice versa).","22":"MALDI-TOF\/TOF collision-induced dissociation (CID) experiments were conducted on model aromatic polyester oligomers. CID fragmentation studies identified initial fracture of the ester bond and subsequent CO loss as a major pathway, consistent with the general fragmentation mechanism used to explain the origin of poly(p-phenylenediamine terephthalamide) (PPD-T) fragment ions. Specifically, both charge-remote and charge-site fragmentation were observed. Different parent-ion species were observed, the major ones being carboxyl-hydroxyl, di-carboxyl, di-hydroxyl, and phenyl-carboxyl terminated. One species observed was hydroxyl-diethylamine terminated caused by reaction of carboxyl groups with triethylamine added to the synthesis reaction mixture. Fragment ions reflected the end groups of the parent oligomers. Some MALDI fragment-ion spectra were obtained for species showing exchange between Li and H at the carboxyl end group. Bond energy calculations provide further insight into suggested fragmentation mechanisms.","23":null,"24":"The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of fluorination on the antimicrobial and biofilm-controlling activities of N-halamine-based additives for polymers. A fluorinated N-halamine, 1-chloro-3-1H,1H,2H,2H-perflurooctyl-5,5-dimetylhydantoin (Cl-FODMH), and its un-fluorinated counterpart, 1-chloro-3-octyl-5,5-dimethylhydantoin (Cl-ODMH), were synthesized and characterized with FT-IR, 1H-NMR, and DSC studies. Polyurethane (PU) films containing Cl-ODMH and Cl-FODMH as antimicrobial additives were fabricated through solvent casting. With the same additive contents (1wt%-5 wt%), PU films with Cl-FODMH showed higher contact angle values. AFM, SEM and DSC results revealed that while Cl-ODMH distributed evenly within PU, Cl-FODMH aggregated and formed macro-domains in PU. Antimicrobial studies showed that PU films with Cl-ODMH had higher antimicrobial and biofilm-controlling potency against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria than PU samples with Cl-FODMH. These results demonstrated the importance of distribution of additives in polymers on antimicrobial performances, shedding lights on future antimicrobial material design strategies.","25":"Concentrating on the case of poly(ethylene glycol) hydrogels, this paper introduces a methodology that enables a natural integration between the development of a so-called mechanistic model and experimental data relating material's processing to response. In a nutshell, we develop a data-driven modeling component that is able to learn and indirectly infer its own parameters and structure by observing experimental data. Using this method, we investigate the relationship between processing conditions, microstructure and chemistry (cross-link density and polymer-solvent interactions) and response (swelling and elasticity) of non-degradable and degradable PEG hydrogels. We show that the method not only enables the determination of the polymer-solvent interaction parameter, but also it predicts that this parameter, among others, varies with processing conditions and degradation. The proposed methodology therefore offers a new approach that accounts for subtle changes in the hydrogel processing.","26":"Nanotextured surfaces are widely used throughout nature for adhesion, wetting, and transport. Chemistry, geometry, and morphology are important factors for creating tunable textured surfaces, in which directionality of droplets can be controlled. Here, we fabricated nano textured polymeric surfaces, and studied the effect of tilting on the mobility of frequency modulated water droplet transported on asymmetric nano-PPX tracks. Plastically-deformed tracks guided water droplets for sorting, gating, and merging them as a function on their volume. Polymeric ratchets open up new avenues for the fields of digital fluidics and flexible device fabrication.","27":null,"28":null,"29":"The objective of this work was to investigate the effect of chemical composition and segment number (n) on gelation, stiffness, and degradation of hydroxy acid-chain-extended star polyethylene glycol acrylate (SPEXA) gels. The hydroxy acids included glycolide (G,), L-lactide (L), p-dioxanone (D) and -caprolactone (C). Chain-extension generated water soluble macromers with faster gelation rates, lower sol fractions, higher compressive moduli, and a wide-ranging degradation times when crosslinked into a hydrogel. SPEGA gels with the highest fraction of inter-molecular crosslinks had the most increase in compressive modulus with n whereas SPELA and SPECA had the lowest increase in modulus. SPEXA gels exhibited a wide range of degradation times from a few days for SPEGA to a few weeks for SPELA, a few months for SPEDA, and many months for SPECA. Marrow stromal cells and endothelial progenitor cells had the highest expression of vasculogenic markers when co-encapsulated in the faster degrading SPELA gel.","30":"Random cationic copolymer brushes composed of 2-(dimethylamino)ethyl methacrylate (DMAEMA) and N-isopropylacrylamide (NIPAAm) were synthesized using the atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP) method. The effects of varying the monomer feed ratios (30:70 and 70:30 DMAEMA:NIPAAm) and polymerization times on the film height, morphology and stimuli response to pH of the brush were evaluated. While the polymerization time was found to have little influence on the properties of the brushes, the monomer feed ratios had a great impact. The 70 % DMAEMA polymer brush had similar height as the 30 % DMAEMA brush after 45 min; however, it had a greater response to pH and morphological change compared to the 30 % DMAEMA. The 70 % DMAEMA brush was used to demonstrate an efficient approach to alleviate the ion suppression effect in MALDI analysis of complex mixtures by effectively fractionating a binary mixture of peptides prior to MALDI-MS analysis.","31":null,"32":null,"33":null,"34":"Although methods have been developed to synthesize and isolate generation 5 (G5) PAMAM dendrimers containing precise numbers of ligands per polymer particle, the presence of skeletal and generational defects in this material can substantially hamper the process. Here we provide a quantitative analysis of G5 PAMAM dendrimer defects via high performance liquid chromatography, potentiometric titration, mass spectrometry, size exclusion chromatography, and nuclear magnetic resonance. We identified, isolated, and characterized the major structural defects of G5 dendrimer, trailing generations, and dimer, trimer, and tetramer species. We determine that the G5 material present in the as-received mixture contains 93 arms on average. We have developed two model systems capable of generating the experimentally observed mass range and polydispersity at defect rates of 8-15%.","35":"The objectives of this work were: (1) to select suitable compositions of tyrosine-derived polycarbonates for controlled delivery of voclosporin, a potent drug candidate to treat ocular diseases, (2) to establish a structure-function relationship between key molecular characteristics of biodegradable polymer matrices and drug release kinetics, and (3) to identify factors contributing in the rate of drug release. For the first time, the experimental study of polymeric drug release was accompanied by a hierarchical sequence of three computational methods. First, suitable polymer compositions used in subsequent neural network modeling were determined by means of response surface methodology (RSM). Second, accurate artificial neural network (ANN) models were built to predict drug release profiles for fifteen polymers located outside the initial design space. Finally, thermodynamic properties and hydrogen-bonding patterns of model drug-polymer complexes were studied using molecular dynamics (MD) technique to elucidate a role of specific interactions in drug release mechanism. This research presents further development of methodological approaches to meet challenges in the design of polymeric drug delivery systems.","36":"Photodegradable hydrogels have emerged as a powerful material platform for studying and directing cell behaviors, as well as for delivering drugs. The premise of this technique is to use a cytocompatible light source to cleave linkers within a hydrogel, thus causing reduction of matrix stiffness or liberation of matrix-tethered biomolecules in a spatial-temporally controlled manner. The most commonly used photodegradable units are molecules containing nitrobenzyl moieties that absorb light in the ultraviolet (UV) to lower visible wavelengths (~280 to 450 nm). Because photodegradable linkers and hydrogels reported in the literature thus far are all sensitive to UV light, highly efficient UV-mediated photopolymerizations are less likely to be used as the method to prepare these hydrogels. As a result, currently available photodegradable hydrogels are formed by redox-mediated radical polymerizations, emulsion polymerizations, Michael-type addition reactions, or orthogonal click chemistries. Here, we report the first photodegradable poly(ethylene glycol)-based hydrogel system prepared by step-growth photopolymerization. The model photolabile peptide cross-linkers, synthesized by conventional solid phase peptide synthesis, contained terminal cysteines for step-growth thiol-ene photo-click reactions and a UV-sensitive 2-nitrophenylalanine residue in the peptide backbone for photo-cleavage. Photolysis of this peptide was achieved through adjusting UV light exposure time and intensity. Photopolymerization of photodegradable hydrogels containing photolabile peptide cross-linkers was made possible via a highly efficient visible light-mediated thiol-ene photo-click reaction using a non-cleavage type photoinitiator eosin-Y. Rapid gelation was confirmed by in situ photo-rheometry. Flood UV irradiation at controlled wavelength and intensity was used to demonstrate the photodegradability of these photopolymerized hydrogels.","37":null,"38":null,"39":null,"40":"Many hydrogel materials of interest are homogeneous on the micrometer scale. Electrospinning, the formation of sub-micrometer to micrometer diameter fibers by a jet of fluid formed under an electric field, is one process being explored to create rich microstructures. However, electrospinning a hydrogel system as it reacts requires an understanding of the gelation kinetics and corresponding rheology near the liquid-solid transition. In this study, we correlate the structure of electrospun fibers of a covalently cross-linked hydrogelator with the corresponding gelation transition and kinetics. Polyethylene oxide (PEO) is used as a carrier polymer in a chemically cross-linking poly(ethylene glycol)-high molecular weight heparin (PEG-HMWH) hydrogel. Using measurements of gelation kinetics from multiple particle tracking microrheology (MPT), we correlate the material rheology with the the formation of stable fibers. An equilibrated, cross-linked hydrogel is then spun and the PEO is dissolved. In both cases, microstructural features of the electrospun fibers are retained, confirming the covalent nature of the network. The ability to spin fibers of a cross-linking hydrogel system ultimately enables the engineering of materials and microstructural length scales suitable for biological applications.","41":"This study reports a facile method for the fabrication of aligned Poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene) (PEDOT) fibers and tubes based on electrospinning and oxidative chemical polymerization. Discrete PEDOT nano- and microfibers and nano- and microtubes are difficult to fabricate quickly and reproducibly. We employed poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) polymers that were loaded with polymerizable 3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene (EDOT) monomer to create aligned nanofiber assemblies using a rotating glass mandrel during electrospinning. The EDOT monomer\/PLGA polymer blends were then polymerized by exposure to an oxidative catalyst (FeCl3). PEDOT was polymerized by continuously dripping a FeCl3 solution onto the glass rod during electrospinning. The resulting PEDOT fibers were conductive, aligned and discrete. Fiber bundles could be easily produced in lengths of several centimeters. The PEDOT sheath\/PLGA core fibers were immersed in chloroform to remove the PLGA and any residual EDOT resulting in hollow PEDOT tubes. This approach made it possible to easily generate large areas of aligned PEDOT fibers\/tubes. The structure and properties of the aligned assemblies were measured using optical microscopy, electron microscopy, Raman spectroscopy, thermal gravimetric analysis, and DC conductivity measurements. We also demonstrated that the aligned PEDOT sheath\/PLGA core fiber assemblies could be used in supporting and directing the extension of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons in vitro.","42":"Non-reactive, thermoplastic prepolymers (poly- methyl, ethyl and butyl methacrylate) were added to a model homopolymer matrix composed of triethylene glycol dimethacrylate (TEGDMA) to form heterogeneous networks via polymerization induced phase separation (PIPS). PIPS creates networks with distinct phase structure that can partially compensate for volumetric shrinkage during polymerization through localized internal volume expansion. This investigation utilizes purely photo-initiated, free-radical systems, broadening the scope of applications for PIPS since these processing conditions have not been studied previously.The introduction of prepolymer into TEGDMA monomer resulted in stable, homogeneous monomer formulations, most of which underwent PIPS upon photo-irradiation, creating heterogeneous networks. During polymerization the presence of prepolymer enhanced autoacceleration, allowing for a more extensive ambient cure of the material. Phase separation, as characterized by dynamic changes in sample turbidity, was monitored simultaneously with monomer conversion and either preceded or was coincident with network gelation. Dynamic mechanical analysis shows a broadening of the tan delta peak and secondary peak formation, characteristic of phase-separated materials, indicating one phase rich in prepolymer and another depleted form upon phase separation. In certain cases, PIPS leads to an enhanced physical reduction of volumetric shrinkage, which is attractive for many applications including dental composite materials.","43":null,"44":null,"45":null,"46":null,"47":null,"48":"Chain-transfer reactions from thiols to methacrylates are expected to delay gelation and possibly reduce stress at the bonded interface of dental restorations. Thiol additives with varying structures were combined with a dimethacrylate commonly used in dental materials. Polymerization stress\/modulus development were monitored by a tensometer\/rheometer, respectively, both coupled with RT-NIR. For all thiol-modified materials, conversion and modulus were 5-25 % higher than the control, and maximum reaction rate was 25-50 % lower. Gel point conversions were 12-22 % (control=5 %), and deceleration was observed at later stages in conversion (30-60 %; control=15 %). Consequently, even with increased conversion\/modulus, stress values were either equal or reduced compared to the control. This approach does not require any modification in the bonding\/photoactivation procedures, and seems promising for stress management not only in polymeric dental materials, but also for other applications of glassy, crosslinked photopolymers, as long as thiol volatility is addressed.","49":"The objective of this research was to examine the capabilities of QSPR (Quantitative Structure Property Relationship) modeling to predict specific biological responses (fibrinogen adsorption, cell attachment and cell proliferation index) on thin films of different polymethacrylates. Using 33 commercially available monomers it is theoretically possible to construct a library of over 40,000 distinct polymer compositions. A subset of these polymers were synthesized and solvent cast surfaces were prepared in 96 well plates for the measurement of fibrinogen adsorption. NIH 3T3 cell attachment and proliferation index were measured on spin coated thin films of these polymers. Based on the experimental results of these polymers, separate models were built for homo-, co-, and terpolymers in the library with good correlation between experiment and predicted values. The ability to predict biological responses by simple QSPR models for large numbers of polymers has important implications in designing biomaterials for specific biological or medical applications.","50":"A new type of pH-labile cationic polymers, poly(ortho ester amidine) (POEAmd) copolymers, has been synthesized and characterized with potential future application as gene delivery carriers. The acid-labile POEAmd copolymer was synthesized by polycondensation of a new ortho ester diamine monomer with dimethylaliphatimidates, and a non-acid-labile polyamidine (PAmd) copolymer was also synthesized for comparison using a triethylene glycol diamine monomer. Both copolymers were easily dissolved in water, and can efficiently bind and condense plasmid DNA at neutral pH, forming nano-scale polyplexes. The physico-chemical properties of the polyplexes have been studied using dynamic light scattering, gel electrophoresis, ethidium bromide exclusion, and heparin competition. The average size of the polyplexes was dependent on the amidine: phosphate (N:P) ratio of the polymers to DNA. Polyplexes containing the acid-labile POEAmd or the non-acid-labile PAmd showed similar average particle size, comparable strength of condensing DNA, and resistance to electrostatic destabilization. They also share similar metabolic toxicity to cells as measured by MTT assay. Importantly, the acid-labile polyplexes undergo accelerated polymer degradation at mildly-acid-pHs, resulting in increasing particle size and the release of intact DNA plasmid. Polyplexes from both types of polyamidines caused distinct changes in the scattering properties of Baby Hamster Kidney (BHK-21) cells, showing swelling and increasing intracellular granularity. These cellular responses are uniquely different from other cationic polymers such as polyethylenimine and point to stress-related mechanisms specific to the polyamidines. Gene transfection of BHK-21 cells was evaluated by flow cytometry. The positive yet modest transfection efficiency by the polyamidines (acid-labile and non-acid-labile alike) underscores the importance of balancing polymer degradation and DNA release with endosomal escape. Insights gained from studying such acid-labile polyamidine-based DNA carriers and their interaction with cells may contribute to improved design of practically useful gene delivery systems.","51":null,"52":null,"53":null,"54":"Polypyrrole (PPy) is a biocompatible, electrically conductive polymer that has great potential for battery, sensor, and neural implant applications. Its amorphous structure and insolubility, however, limit the experimental techniques available to study its structure and properties at the atomic level. Previous theoretical studies of PPy in bulk are also scarce. Using ab initio calculations, we have constructed a molecular mechanics force field of chloride-doped PPy (PPyCl) and undoped PPy. This model has been designed to integrate into the OPLS force field, and parameters are available for the Gromacs and TINKER software packages. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of bulk PPy and PPyCl have been performed using this force field, and the effects of chain packing and electrostatic scaling on the bulk polymer density have been investigated. The density of flotation of PPyCl films has been measured experimentally. Amorphous X-ray diffraction of PPyCl was obtained and correlated with atomic structures sampled from MD simulations. The force field reported here is foundational for bridging the gap between experimental measurements and theoretical calculations for PPy based materials.","55":"The osmotic and scattering properties of hyaluronan-based composite hydrogels composed of stiff biopolymer chains (carboxymethylated thiolated hyaluronan (CMHA-S)) crosslinked by a flexible polymer (polyethylene glycol diacrylate (PEGDA)) are investigated and analyzed in terms of the scaling theory. The total pre-gel polymer weight concentration is varied between 0.5 wt.% and 3.2 wt.%, while the mole ratio between the reactive PEG chain ends and the thiolated HA moieties is changed between 0.15 and 1.0. The shear modulus G of the fully swollen gels exhibits a stronger dependence on pre-gel concentration than on the crosslink density. Osmotic deswelling measurements reveal that the osmotic mixing pressure depends on the weight ratio CMHA-S\/PEGDA, and is practically unaffected by the pre-gel concentration. Small-angle neutron scattering observations indicate that the thermodynamic properties of these composite gels are governed by total polymer concentration, i.e., specific interactions between the two polymeric components do not play a significant role.","56":"Hydration- and temperature-induced microphase separations were investigated by simultaneous small- and wide-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS and WAXS) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) in a family of copolymers in which hydrophilic poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) blocks are inserted randomly into a hydrophobic polymer made of either desaminotyrosyl-tyrosine ethyl ester (DTE) or iodinated I(2)DTE segments. Iodination of the tyrosine rings in I(2)DTE increased the X-ray contrast between the hydrophobic and hydrophilic segments in addition to facilitating the study of the effect of iodination on microphase separation. The formation of phase-separated, hydrated PEG domains is of considerable significance as it profoundly affects the polymer properties. The copolymers of DTE (or I(2)DTE) and PEG are a useful model system and the findings presented here may be applicable to other PEG-containing random copolymers as well. In copolymers of PEG and DTE and I(2)DTE, the presence of PEG depressed the glass transition temperature (T(g)) of the copolymer relative to the homopolymer, poly(DTE carbonate), and the DTE\/ I(2)DTE segments hindered the crystallization of the PEG segments. In the dry state, at large PEG fractions (&gt; 70 vol%), the PEG domains self-assembled into an ordered structure with 14-18 nm distance between the domains. These domains gave rise to a SAXS peak at all temperatures in the iodinated polymers, but only above the T(g) in non-iodinated polymers, due to the unexpected contrast- match between the crystalline PEG domains and the glassy DTE segments. Irrespective of whether PEG was crystalline or not, immersion of these copolymers in water resulted in the formation of hydrated PEG domains that were 10-20 nm apart. Since both water and the polymer chains must be mobile for the phase separation to occur, the PEG domains disappeared when the water froze, and reappeared as the ice began to melt. This transformation was reversible, and showed hysteresis as did the melting of ice and freezing of the water incorporated into the polymer. PEG-water complexes and PEG-water eutectics were observed in WAXS and DSC scans, respectively.","57":null,"58":null,"59":"A systematic procedure has been developed to construct a relaxed dense-phase atomistic structure of a complex amorphous polymer. The numerical procedure consists of (1) coarse graining the atomistic model of the polymer into a mesoscopic model based on an iterative algorithm for potential inversion from distribution functions of the atomistic model, (2) relaxation of the coarse grained chain using a molecular dynamics scheme, and (3) recovery of the atomistic structure by reverse mapping based on the superposition of atomistic counterparts on the corresponding coarse grained coordinates. These methods are demonstrated by their application to construct a relaxed, dense-phase model of poly(DTB succinate), which is an amorphous tyrosine-derived biodegradable polymer that is being developed for biomedical applications. Both static and dynamic properties from the coarse-grained and atomistic simulations are analyzed and compared. The coarse-grained model, which contains the essential features of the DTB succinate structure, successfully described both local and global structural properties of the atomistic chain. The effective speedup compared to the corresponding atomistic simulation is substantially above 10(2), thus enabling simulation times to reach well into the characteristic experimental regime. The computational approach for reversibly bridging between coarse-grained and atomistic models provides an efficient method to produce relaxed dense-phase all-atom molecular models of complex amorphous polymers that can subsequently be used to study and predict the atomistic-level behavior of the polymer under different environmental conditions in order to optimally design polymers for targeted applications.","60":"High molecular weight, high functionality diamino telechelic polybutadienes (TPBs) were synthesized by ring-opening metathesis polymerization (ROMP) of 1,5-cyclooctadiene (COD) in the presence of a chain transfer agent, 1,8-dicyano-4-octene, followed by lithium aluminum hydride reduction. Melt coupling of diamino TPB with anhydride-terminated polystyrene (PS-anh) resulted in the formation of styrene-butadiene-styrene (SBS) triblock copolymers; ca. 80% maximum conversion of PS-anh was achieved within 30 seconds. The results from SAXS, TEM, and rheological measurements of the coupling products confirmed the formation of SBS triblock copolymers having lamellar morphology. A fluororesent-labeled PS-anh was used to study the coupling kinetics by diluting the reactants by the addition of non-functional PS.","61":"The aim of this study was to investigate the preparation, characterization, and encapsulation\/release performance of an electrospun composite nanofiber mat. The hypothesis was that the composite nanofiber mat with nano-scaled drug particles impregnated in biocompatible and biodegradable polymer nanofibers can serve as an innovative type of tissue engineering scaffold with desired and controllable drug encapsulation\/release properties. To test the hypothesis, the composite nanofiber mat electrospun from an emulsion consisting of poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) Rhodamine B (a model compound to simulate drugs), sorbitan monooleate (Span-80, a non-ionic emulsifier\/surfactant that is presumably non-toxic\/safe for cell-growth), chloroform, DMF, and distilled water was prepared and characterized; and the Rhodamine B encapsulation\/release profile in phosphate buffered saline (pH = 7.4) was recorded and analyzed. For comparison purposes, two additional nanofiber mats electrospun from (1) a solution containing PLGA and Rhodamine B, and (2) a solution containing PLGA, Rhodamine B, and Span-80 were also prepared and assessed as the control samples. The results indicated that the composite nanofiber mat electrospun from the emulsion had the most desired and controllable Rhodamine B encapsulation\/release profile and the excellent morphological sustainability; thus, it could be utilized as both a drug encapsulation\/release vehicle and a tissue engineering scaffold.","62":"The objective of this work is to characterize and understand the structure-to-thermo-mechanical property relationship in thiol-ene and thiol-ene\/acrylate copolymers in order to complement the existing studies on the kinetics of this polymerization reaction. Forty-one distinct three- and four-part mixtures were created with systematically varied functionality, chemical structure, type and concentration of crosslinker. The resulting polymers were subjected to dynamic mechanical analysis and tensile testing at their glass transition temperature, T(g), to quantify and understand their thermomechanical properties. The copolymer systems exhibited a broad range of T(g), rubbery modulus - E(r) and failure strain. The addition of a difunctional high-T(g) acrylate to several three-part systems increased the resultant T(g) and E(r). Higher crosslink densities generally resulted in higher stress and lower strain at failure. The tunability of the thermomechanical properties of these copolymer systems is discussed in terms of inherent advantages and limitations in light of pure acrylate systems.","63":null,"64":null,"65":null,"66":null,"67":"We present a material design strategy of combining crystallinity and crosslinking to control the mechanical properties of polymeric biomaterials. Three polycaprolactone fumarates (PCLF530, PCLF1250, and PCLF2000) synthesized from the precursor polycaprolactone (PCL) diols with nominal molecular weights of 530, 1250, and 2000 g.mol(-1), respectively, were employed to fabricate polymer networks via photo-crosslinking process. Five different amounts of photo-crosslinking initiator were applied during fabrication in order to understand the role of photoinitiator in modulating the crosslinking characteristics and physical properties of PCLF networks. Thermal properties such as glass transition temperature (T(g)), melting temperature (T(m)), and degradation temperature (T(d)) of photo-crosslinked PCLFs were examined and correlated with their rheological and mechanical properties.","68":"Ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) is radiation cross-linked to decrease wear in total joint applications. Irradiation decreases the strength of UHMWPE and introduces residual free radicals, which can cause oxidation in the long-term. We advanced a method eliminating the free radicals without a reduction in strength. UHMWPE exhibits a hexagonal phase at high pressure and temperature, where chain mobility in the crystalline phase is increased, leading to the formation of extended chain crystals. We hypothesized that the increased chain mobility during transformation from the orthorhombic to hexagonal phase could be used to eliminate the residual free radicals in irradiated UHMWPE. We eliminated the free radicals in 25-, 65- and 100-kGy irradiated UHMWPE and these materials did not show oxidation after accelerated aging. The ultimate tensile strength and work to failure of 25 and 65-kGy irradiated UHMWPEs were improved significantly while that of 100-kGy irradiated UHMWPE was lower compared to irradiated UHMWPE melted at ambient pressure.","69":"A semi-empirical method based on the mass-per-flexible-bond (M\/f) principle was used to quantitatively explain the large range of glass transition temperatures (T(g)) observed in a library of 132 L-tyrosine derived homo, co- and terpolymers containing different functional groups. Polymer class specific behavior was observed in T(g) vs. M\/f plots, and explained in terms of different densities, steric hindrances and intermolecular interactions of chemically distinct polymers. The method was found to be useful in the prediction of polymer T(g). The predictive accuracy was found to range from 6.4 to 3.7 K, depending on polymer class. This level of accuracy compares favorably with (more complicated) methods used in the literature. The proposed method can also be used for structure prediction of polymers to match a target T(g) value, by keeping the thermal behavior of a terpolymer constant while independently choosing its chemistry. Both applications of the method are likely to have broad applications in polymer and (bio)material science.","70":"Smart biomaterials composed of pH responsive polymers, poly((meth)acrylic acid), were synthesized using a precipitation polymerization technique. The microparticles were grafted with poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) chains that are capable of complexing with the hydroxyl groups of the polyacid and interpenetrating into the mucus gel layer upon entry into the small intestine. Upon introduction of an alkaline solution, these materials imbibe a significant amount of water and create a highly viscous suspension. These materials have the necessary physicochemical properties to serve as mucoadhesive controlled release drug carriers for the oral delivery of drugs.","71":null,"72":"This paper presents a new approach to study the statistics of lattice random walks in the presence of obstacles and local self-avoidance constraints (excluded volume). By excluding sequentially local interactions within a window that slides along the chain, we obtain an upper bound on the number of self-avoiding walks (SAWs) that terminate at each possible position and orientation. Furthermore we develop a technique to include the effects of obstacles. Thus our model is a more realistic approximation of a polymer chain than that of a simple lattice random walk, and it is more computationally tractable than enumeration of obstacle-avoiding SAWs. Our approach is based on the method of the lattice-motion-group convolution. We develop these techniques theoretically and present numerical results for 2-D and 3-D lattices (square, hexagonal, cubic and tetrahedral\/diamond). We present numerical results that show how the connectivity constant mu changes with the length of each self-avoiding window and the total length of the chain. Quantities such as R and others such as the probability of ring closure are calculated and compared with results obtained in the literature for the simple random walk case.","73":null,"74":"The development of thiol-ene\/thiol-epoxy hybrid networks offers the advantage of tailorable polymerization kinetics while producing a highly crosslinked, high T(g) polymer that has significantly reduced shrinkage stress. Stoichiometric mixtures of pentaerythritol tetra(3-mercaptopropionate) (PETMP)\/triallyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4,6-trione (TATATO) (thiol-ene, mixture 1) and PETMP\/bisphenol a diglycidyl ether (BADGE) (thiol-epoxy, mixture 2) were prepared and hybrid mixtures of 75\/25, 50\/50, 25\/75, and 10\/90 w\/w of mixtures 1 and 2 were polymerized using a combination of both radical and anionic initiation. The light exposure timing and the relative initiation conditions of the two types were used to control the order and relative rates of the radical and anionic polymerizations. The 50\/50 w\/w thiol-ene\/thiol-epoxy hybrid material exhibited a final stress of only 0.2 MPa, which is 90 % lower than the stress developed in a control dimethacrylate resin. Kinetic analysis indicates composition affects network development in thiol-ene\/thiol-epoxy hybrid networks and produces materials with robust mechanical properties.","75":"Polymerization volume change (PVC) was measured systematically using mercury dilatometry for 41 epoxide and methacrylate monomers with quartz filler. Quantitative structure property relationship (QSPR) models were developed based on this previously unreported data to gain insight in the data collection method for future models. Successful models included only data from those samples which polymerized to hardness. The most significant descriptors in these models related to monomer reactivity. In contrast, PVC data collected under experimental conditions which maximized monomer conversion resulted in descriptors describing size and branching, indicating conversion must be considered for future PVC measurements. A Rule of Mixtures (ROM) correction term improved correlations of the dilatometer data with varying quartz content, and an adjustment for conversion may similarly enable inclusion of data which had not polymerize to hardness.","76":"The objective of this research was to study the reinforcement of electrospun nylon 6\/fibrillar silicate nanocomposite nanofibers on Bis-GMA\/TEGDMA dental composites. The hypothesis was that the uniform distribution of nano-scaled and highly aligned fibrillar silicate single crystals into electrospun nylon 6 nanofibers would improve the mechanical properties of the resulting nanocomposite nanofibers, and would lead to the effective reinforcement of dental composites. The nylon 6\/fibrillar silicate nanocomposite nanofibers were crystalline, structurally oriented and had an average diameter of approximately 250 nm. To relatively well distribute nanofibers in dental composites, the nanofiber containing composite powders with a particle structure similar to that in interpenetration networks were prepared first, and then used to make the dental composites. The results indicated that small mass fractions (1 % and 2 %) of nanofiber impregnation improved the mechanical properties substantially, while larger mass factions (4 % and 8 %) of nanofiber impregnation resulted in less desired mechanical properties.","77":null,"78":"This paper presents a new algorithm for generating the conformational statistics of lattice polymer models. The inputs to the algorithm are the distributions of poses (positions and orientations) of reference frames attached to sequentially proximal bonds in the chain as it undergoes all possible torsional motions in the lattice. If z denotes the number of discrete torsional motions allowable around each of the n bonds, our method generates the probability distribution in end-to-end pose corresponding to all of the z(n) independent lattice conformations in O(n(D) (+1)) arithmetic operations for lattices in D-dimensional space. This is achieved by dividing the chain into short segments and performing multiple generalized convolutions of the pose distribution functions for each segment. The convolution is performed with respect to the crystallographic space group for the lattice on which the chain is defined. The formulation is modified to include the effects of obstacles (excluded volumes), and to calculate the frequency of the occurrence of each conformation when the effects of pairwise conformational energy are included. In the latter case (which is for 3 dimensional lattices only) the computational cost is O(z(4)n(4)). This polynomial complexity is a vast improvement over the O(z(n)) exponential complexity associated with the brute force enumeration of all conformations. The distribution of end-to-end distances and average radius of gyration are calculated easily once the pose distribution for the full chain is found. The method is demonstrated with square, hexagonal, cubic and tetrahedral lattices.","79":"This work is a part of a series of publications devoted to the development of surrogate (semi-empirical) models for the prediction of fibrinogen adsorption onto polymer surfaces. Since fibrinogen is one of the key proteins involved in platelet activation and the formation of thrombosis, the modeling of fibrinogen adsorption on the surface of blood contacting medical devices is of high theoretical and practical significance. We report here, for the first time, on the incorporation three-dimensional structures of polymers obtained from atomistic simulations into conventional mesoscopic-scale calculations. Low energy conformations derived from Molecular Dynamics simulations for 45 representatives of a combinatorial library of polyarylates were used in an improved modeling procedure (referred to as \"3D surrogate model\") instead of simplistic two-dimensional representations of polymer structures, which were used in several previous models (collectively referred to as \"2D surrogate models\"). In the framework of this 3D model we created 12 model sets of polymers to account for their chirality, conformational diversity and the structural influence of a solvent. For each polymer set, three-dimensional molecular descriptors were generated and then ranked with respect to the experimental fibrinogen adsorption data by means of a Monte Carlo Decision Tree. The most significant descriptors identified by Decision Tree and the experimental dataset were utilized to predict fibrinogen adsorption using an Artificial Neural Network (ANN). The best prediction achieved by the 3D surrogate model demonstrated a noticeable improvement in the predictive quality as compared to the previously used 2D model (as evidenced by the increase in the average Pearson correlation coefficient from 0.67+\/-0.13 to 0.54+\/-0.12). The predictive quality of the 3D surrogate model compares favorably with the best results previously reported for extended 2D model that combines an ANN with Partial Least Squares (PLS) regression and principal component (PC) analysis. The significance of the newly developed 3D model is that it allows high accuracy prediction of fibrinogen adsorption without the need for experimentally derived descriptors and it has better predictive quality than the original 2D surrogate model due to utilization of realistic polymer representations.","80":"Tailoring the surfaces of a nanocontainer with polymer brushes that have different affinities to the components of a phase-separating polymer blend should impart self-directing properties to the nanocontainers. Such nanocontainers could then be used to deliver a variety of functional species in tunable amounts and in a site-specific manner to polymer systems. This paper describes the surface modification, subsequent characterization of nanocontainers derived from ferritin, and the effects of surface modification on their self-directing properties in a binary phase separating homopolymer blend. Wild ferritin was either PEGylated or alkylated by zero-length crosslinking to its surface carboxylate groups that were activated by carbodiimide. Modification was confirmed by ion-exchange chromatography, zeta-potential measurement, and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. FT-IR spectrometry was used to quantify the extent of PEGylation by ratioing the intensity of the C-O-C asymmetric stretching vibration from the grafted PEG to that of the carbonyl stretching vibration (amide I band) from the protein. Importantly, modified ferritin was soluble in the organic solvent dichloromethane (DCM). Modified ferritin was introduced into a polymer blend of hydrophobic and hydrophilic polymers made up of poly (desaminotyrosyl tyrosine dodecyl ester carbonate) (PDTD) and PEG by solvent casting from solution in the common solvent DCM. Polymer thin films with an average thickness of ~ 200 mum were obtained upon evaporation of the solvent. Transmission electron micrographs of microtomed polymer films demonstrated remarkable selectivity of PEGylated ferritin to PEG domains, while alkylated ferritin self-directs to the PDTD matrix.","81":"Uniform polymeric nanoparticles with various morphologies of projection coronas like the viruses in the coronavirus group have been formed by the self-organization of macromolecular chains polymerizing in a dispersion system of styrene (St), acrylonitrile (AN) and poly(ethylene glycol) monomethoxymonomethacrylate (PEGm) in a polar solvent (water\/ethanol). An increase in the water composition reduced the crystallization degree of AN units, resulting in a variety of the nanoparticle morphology such as the increased particle size, the reduced projection size, the increased projection number, and the decreased inter-projection distance. The difference in the projection morphology strongly affected a dispersibility in water.","82":"We present a unified method to generate conformational statistics which can be applied to any of the classical discrete-chain polymer models. The proposed method employs the concepts of Fourier transform and generalized convolution for the group of rigid-body motions in order to obtain probability density functions of chain end-to-end distance. In this paper, we demonstrate the proposed method with three different cases: the freely-rotating model, independent energy model, and interdependent pairwise energy model (the last two are also well-known as the Rotational Isomeric State model). As for numerical examples, for simplicity, we assume homogeneous polymer chains. For the freely-rotating model, we verify the proposed method by comparing with well-known closed-form results for mean-squared end-to-end distance. In the interdependent pairwise energy case, we take polypeptide chains such as polyalanine and polyvaline as examples.","83":null},"articletitle":{"0":"Investigation of Molecular Mechanisms of Polyvinylidene Fluoride under the Effects of Temperature, Electric Poling, and Mechanical Stretching Using Molecular Dynamics Simulations.","1":"Engineering laminated paper for SARS-CoV-2 medical gowns.","2":"Synthesis of Site-specific Charged Metallopolymers via Reversible Addition-Fragmentation Chain Transfer (RAFT) Polymerization.","3":"Mass Spectrometry of Polyurethanes.","4":"Alkali Metal Cation Adduct Effect on Polybutylene Adipate Oligomers: Ion Mobility-Mass Spectrometry.","5":"Implementation of two distinct wavelengths to induce multistage polymerization in shape memory materials and nanoimprint lithography.","6":"Effect of cellulose nanocrystals on crystallization kinetics of polycaprolactone as probed by Rheo-Raman.","7":"Effect of processing conditions on crystallization kinetics during materials extrusion additive manufacturing.","8":"Removal of Retained Electrospinning Solvent Prolongs Drug Release from Electrospun PLLA Fibers.","9":"Single Electrospun PLLA and PCL Polymer Nanofibers: Increased Molecular Orientation with Decreased Fiber Diameter.","10":"Chemical Reactions in Classical Molecular Dynamics.","11":"Fast-Responding Bio-Based Shape Memory Thermoplastic Polyurethanes.","12":"Graphene Oxide's Reduction of Hydrolytic Degradation in Polyamide-11.","13":"Determining conformational order and crystallinity in polycaprolactone via Raman spectroscopy.","14":"Characterization and optimization of actuating poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate\/acrylic acid hydrogels as artificial muscles.","15":"Role of Mechanical Factors in Applications of Stimuli-Responsive Polymer Gels - Status and Prospects.","16":"Surface immobilization of thermo-responsive poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) by simple entrapment in a 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane network.","17":"Estimating yield-strain via deformation-recovery simulations.","18":"Fabrication and Characterization of a Glucose-sensitive Antibacterial Chitosan-Polyethylene Oxide Hydrogel.","19":"One-pot Synthesis of Functional Poly(amino ester sulfide)s and Utility in Delivering pDNA and siRNA.","20":"In vitro controlled release of antigen in dendritic cells using pH-sensitive liposome-polymeric hybrid nanoparticles.","21":"In depth examination of impact of secondary reactive species on the apparent decoupling of poly(ethylene glycol) diacrylate hydrogel average mesh size and modulus.","22":"MALDI-TOF\/TOF CID Study of Poly(1,4-dihydroxybenzene terephthalate) Fragmentation Reactions.","23":"Modification of linear prepolymers to tailor heterogeneous network formation through photo-initiated Polymerization-Induced Phase Separation.","24":"Fluorinated and Un-fluorinated N-halamines as Antimicrobial and Biofilm-controlling Additives for Polymers.","25":"Determination of the Polymer-Solvent Interaction Parameter for PEG Hydrogels in Water: Application of a Self Learning Algorithm.","26":"A Fluidic Device with Polymeric Textured Ratchets.","27":"NMR Studies of Thermo-responsive Behavior of an Amphiphilic Poly(asparagine) Derivative in Water.","28":"Photo-Mediated Copper(I)-Catalyzed Azide-Alkyne Cycloaddition (CuAAC) \"Click\" Reactions for Forming Polymer Networks as Shape Memory Materials.","29":"Time Dependence of Material Properties of Polyethylene Glycol Hydrogels Chain Extended with Short Hydroxy Acid Segments.","30":"Stimuli Response of Cationic Polymer Brush Prepared by ATRP: Application in Peptide Fractionation.","31":"RAFT polymerization of temperature- and salt-responsive block copolymers as reversible hydrogels.","32":"Injectable PolyMIPE Scaffolds for Soft Tissue Regeneration.","33":"Fabrication of Cell Patches Using Biodegradable Scaffolds with a Hexagonal Array of Interconnected Pores (SHAIPs).","34":"Quantitative analysis of generation and branch defects in G5 poly(amidoamine) dendrimer.","35":"Investigating the Release of a Hydrophobic Peptide from Matrices of Biodegradable Polymers: An Integrated Method Approach.","36":"Facile preparation of photodegradable hydrogels by photopolymerization.","37":"Shielding effects in polymer-polymer reactions. V. Concentration dependence of contact formation between star-branched and linear chains.","38":"Combinatorial Design of Hydrolytically Degradable, Bone-like Biocomposites Based on PHEMA and Hydroxyapatite.","39":null,"40":"Electrospinning covalently cross-linking biocompatible hydrogelators.","41":"Highly Aligned Poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene) (PEDOT) Nano- and Microscale Fibers and Tubes.","42":"A new approach to network heterogeneity: Polymerization Induced Phase Separation in photo-initiated, free-radical methacrylic systems.","43":"Porous inorganic-organic shape memory polymers.","44":"Enhanced Two-Stage Reactive Polymer Network Forming Systems.","45":null,"46":null,"47":"Synthesis and Gelation Characteristics of Photo-Crosslinkable Star Poly(ethylene oxide-co-lactide-glycolide acrylate) Macromonomers.","48":"Delayed Gelation Through Chain-Transfer Reactions: Mechanism For Stress Reduction In Methacrylate Networks.","49":"Computational modeling of in vitro biological responses on polymethacrylate surfaces.","50":"Synthesis and characterization of new poly(ortho ester amidine) copolymers for nonviral gene delivery.","51":"Structural, chemical and electrochemical characterization of poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) (PEDOT) prepared with various counter-ions and heat treatments.","52":"Charge Dynamics and Bending Actuation in Aquivion Membrane Swelled with Ionic Liquids.","53":"Photopolymerized Thiol-Ene Systems as Shape Memory Polymers.","54":"A Combined Molecular Dynamics and Experimental Study of Doped Polypyrrole.","55":"Structural, mechanical and osmotic properties of injectable hyaluronan-based composite hydrogels.","56":"Microphase separation in copolymers of hydrophilic PEG blocks and hydrophobic tyrosine-derived segments using simultaneous SAXS\/WAXS\/DSC.","57":"Hindered Diffusion of Oligosaccharides in High Strength Poly(ethylene glycol)\/Poly(acrylic acid) Interpenetrating Network Hydrogels: Hydrodynamic Versus Obstruction Models.","58":"Cationic Nanogels Based On Diethylaminoethyl Methacrylate.","59":"A systematic procedure to build a relaxed dense-phase atomistic representation of a complex amorphous polymer using a coarse-grained modeling approach.","60":"Diamino Telechelic Polybutadienes for Solventless Styrene-butadiene-styrene (SBS) Triblock Copolymer Formation.","61":"Preparation, characterization, and encapsulation\/release studies of a composite nanofiber mat electrospun from an emulsion containing poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid).","62":"Synthesis and Thermomechanical Behavior of (Qua)ternary Thiol-ene(\/acrylate) Copolymers.","63":"Polymerization Behavior and Polymer Properties of Eosin-Mediated Surface Modification Reactions.","64":"The effect of the glass transition temperature on the toughness of photopolymerizable (meth)acrylate networks under physiological conditions.","65":"Using steered molecular dynamics simulations and single-molecule force spectroscopy to guide the rational design of biomimetic modular polymeric materials.","66":"Study of peptide fingerprints of parasite proteins and drug-DNA interactions with Markov-Mean-Energy invariants of biopolymer molecular-dynamic lattice networks.","67":null,"68":"FREE RADICAL ELIMINATION IN IRRADIATED UHMWPE THROUGH CRYSTAL MOBILITY IN PHASE TRANSITION TO THE HEXAGONAL PHASE.","69":"Glass transition temperature prediction of polymers through the mass-per-flexible-bond principle.","70":"Dynamics of Poly(ethylene glycol)-Tethered, pH Responsive Networks.","71":"Development and Characterization of Degradable Thiol-Allyl Ether Photopolymers.","72":"Position and Orientation Distributions for Locally Self-Avoiding Walks in the Presence of Obstacles.","73":"Copolymerization and Dark Polymerization Studies for Photopolymerization of Novel Acrylic Monomers.","74":"Evaluation and Control of Thiol-ene\/Thiol-epoxy Hybrid Networks.","75":"Quantum-Mechanical QSPR Models for Polymerization Volume Change of Epoxides and Methacrylates Based on Mercury Dilatometry Results.","76":"Bis-GMA\/TEGDMA Dental Composites Reinforced with Electrospun Nylon 6 Nanocomposite Nanofibers Containing Highly Aligned Fibrillar Silicate Single Crystals.","77":"Separation of the effects of pH and polymer concentration on the swelling pressure and elastic modulus of a pH-responsive hydrogel.","78":"Torsional random walk statistics on lattices using convolution on crystallographic motion groups.","79":"Prediction of Fibrinogen Adsorption for Biodegradable Polymers: Integration of Molecular Dynamics and Surrogate Modeling.","80":"Surface Modification of Protein Nanocontainers and Their Self-Directing Character in Polymer Blends.","81":"One-step nanomorphology control of self-organized projection coronas in uniform polymeric nanoparticles.","82":"A Unified Approach to Conformational Statistics of Classical Polymer and Polypeptide Models.","83":"Prediction of protein secondary structure by mining structural fragment database."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Polymer","1":"Polymer","2":"Polymer","3":"Polymer","4":"Polymer","5":"Polymer","6":"Polymer","7":"Polymer","8":"Polymer","9":"Polymer","10":"Polymer","11":"Polymer","12":"Polymer","13":"Polymer","14":"Polymer","15":"Polymer","16":"Polymer","17":"Polymer","18":"Polymer","19":"Polymer","20":"Polymer","21":"Polymer","22":"Polymer","23":"Polymer","24":"Polymer","25":"Polymer","26":"Polymer","27":"Polymer","28":"Polymer","29":"Polymer","30":"Polymer","31":"Polymer","32":"Polymer","33":"Polymer","34":"Polymer","35":"Polymer","36":"Polymer","37":"Polymer","38":"Polymer","39":"Polymer","40":"Polymer","41":"Polymer","42":"Polymer","43":"Polymer","44":"Polymer","45":"Polymer","46":"Polymer","47":"Polymer","48":"Polymer","49":"Polymer","50":"Polymer","51":"Polymer","52":"Polymer","53":"Polymer","54":"Polymer","55":"Polymer","56":"Polymer","57":"Polymer","58":"Polymer","59":"Polymer","60":"Polymer","61":"Polymer","62":"Polymer","63":"Polymer","64":"Polymer","65":"Polymer","66":"Polymer","67":"Polymer","68":"Polymer","69":"Polymer","70":"Polymer","71":"Polymer","72":"Polymer","73":"Polymer","74":"Polymer","75":"Polymer","76":"Polymer","77":"Polymer","78":"Polymer","79":"Polymer","80":"Polymer","81":"Polymer","82":"Polymer","83":"Polymer"},"keyword":{"0":"Chain ConformationMolecular DynamicsPVDFPolingStretching","1":"Barrier materialCOVID-19Coating morphologyMedical gownPE laminated PaperVirus protection","2":"cobaltoceniummetallocenemetallopolymerreversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT)","3":"MALDIelectrospray ionizationion mobilitypolyesterspolyetherspolyurethanes","4":"Polybutylene adipatealkali cationsdegree of polymerizationion mobility-mass spectrometry","5":null,"6":"Cellulose nanocrystalsCrystallizationRaman","7":"","8":"Drug deliverybiomaterialselectrospun fibers","9":"electron microscopyelectrospinningmolecular orientationnanofiber","10":"","11":"polyurethanepropertiesshape-memorysynthesis","12":"","13":"","14":"C2C12 myoblastElectroactive polymerHydrogel","15":"actuatorshydrogelsmechanical propertiessensorsstimuli-responsive gelsswelling","16":"organosilanesegregationthermo-responsive thin films","17":"Molecular DynamicsUncertainty QuantificationYield strain","18":"chitosancontrolled drug releaseglucose-sensitivehydrogelperiodontitispolyethylene oxide","19":"","20":"PLGA nanoparticleVaccinepH-sensitive lipid","21":"PEGDAdecouplingmesh sizemoduluspoly(ethylene glycol) hydrogels","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"Hydrogelscalibrationdegradation rate constantpolymer-solvent interaction parametervalidation","26":"","27":"","28":null,"29":"cell encapsulationhydrogel chain extensionhydroxy acids","30":"Peptide FractionationPolymer BrushStimuli Response","31":"HydrogelsRAFT polymerizationStimuli-responsive","32":"","33":"C2C12 myoblastscell patchesphotoacoustic microscopyporous scaffoldsregenerative medicinetissue engineering","34":"HPLCMass spectrometryPAMAM dendrimer","35":"computational modelinghydrogen bondinghydrophobic peptidepolymeric drug releasestructure-function relationship","36":"Photopolymerizationclick reactionphotodegradable hydrogelsthiol-ene","37":"Dissipative Particle DynamicsPolymer reactionShielding factor","38":"hydrolytic degradationmacromerpHEMA","39":"N,O-dimethacryloyl hydroxylaminehydrolytic degradationpHEMA","40":"electrospinninghydrogelsmicrorheology","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"Graph theoryLeishmaniaParasite proteomics","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"Morphology controlPatterned crystallizationPolymeric nanoparticles","82":"","83":""},"pmid":{"0":35386266,"1":33758430,"2":32863439,"3":32831406,"4":31839686,"5":31105340,"6":31274931,"7":30983636,"8":29200507,"9":29062160,"10":33149370,"11":28970639,"12":32713968,"13":28824207,"14":31456596,"15":28348443,"16":28255182,"17":32165772,"18":26744546,"19":26726270,"20":26622069,"21":29332957,"22":26195848,"23":26190865,"24":26166903,"25":25999615,"26":25641987,"27":25614708,"28":25378717,"29":25267858,"30":25253913,"31":27041771,"32":24563552,"33":24443593,"34":24058210,"35":24039300,"36":23894212,"37":23874002,"38":23525786,"39":23525522,"40":23459473,"41":25678719,"42":23109733,"43":22956854,"44":22798700,"45":22046058,"46":21966028,"47":21927508,"48":21799544,"49":21779132,"50":21479119,"51":21394224,"52":21339839,"53":21072253,"54":21052521,"55":20824199,"56":20802835,"57":20514136,"58":20436948,"59":20161121,"60":19907636,"61":19907634,"62":22973067,"63":19838291,"64":21709775,"65":19784361,"66":32287404,"67":20936057,"68":18985170,"69":18813337,"70":18690288,"71":18626514,"72":18496591,"73":18360534,"74":18327290,"75":18066392,"76":17940586,"77":17917687,"78":17898862,"79":19568328,"80":19543447,"81":32287403,"82":20165562,"83":19081746},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2021,"2":2020,"3":2019,"4":2019,"5":2018,"6":2018,"7":2018,"8":2017,"9":2017,"10":2017,"11":2017,"12":2017,"13":2017,"14":2017,"15":2016,"16":2016,"17":2017,"18":2016,"19":2015,"20":2015,"21":2015,"22":2015,"23":2015,"24":2015,"25":2015,"26":2015,"27":2014,"28":2014,"29":2014,"30":2014,"31":2014,"32":2014,"33":2014,"34":2013,"35":2013,"36":2013,"37":2013,"38":2013,"39":2013,"40":2013,"41":2013,"42":2012,"43":2012,"44":2012,"45":2011,"46":2011,"47":2011,"48":2011,"49":2011,"50":2011,"51":2011,"52":2011,"53":2010,"54":2010,"55":2010,"56":2010,"57":2009,"58":2010,"59":2009,"60":2008,"61":2008,"62":2009,"63":2008,"64":2009,"65":2008,"66":2009,"67":2008,"68":2008,"69":2007,"70":2007,"71":2007,"72":2008,"73":2007,"74":2007,"75":2006,"76":2007,"77":2006,"78":2007,"79":2007,"80":2007,"81":2005,"82":2005,"83":2005}}