{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5},"abstracttext":{"0":"Bioactive glasses (BGs) are excellent delivery systems for the sustained release of therapeutic ions and have been extensively studied in the context of bone tissue engineering. More recently, due to their osteogenic properties and expanding application to soft tissue repair, BGs have been proposed as promising materials for use at the osteochondral interface. Since hypoxia plays a critical role during cartilage formation, we sought to investigate the influence of BGs releasing the hypoxia-mimicking agent cobalt (CoBGs) on human mesenchymal stem cell (hMSC) chondrogenesis, as a novel approach that may guide future osteochondral scaffold design. The CoBG dissolution products significantly increased the level of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha in hMSCs in a cobalt dose-dependent manner. Continued exposure to the cobalt-containing BG extracts significantly reduced hMSC proliferation and metabolic activity, as well as chondrogenic differentiation. Overall, this study demonstrates that prolonged exposure to cobalt warrants careful consideration for cartilage repair applications.","1":null,"2":null,"3":"This paper introduces our approach to modeling the mechanical behavior of cellular ceramics, through the example of calcium phosphate scaffolds made by robocasting for bone-tissue engineering. The Weibull theory is used to deal with the scaffolds' constitutive rods statistical failure, and the Sanchez-Palencia theory of periodic homogenization is used to link the rod- and scaffold-scales. Uniaxial compression of scaffolds and three-point bending of rods were performed to calibrate and validate the model. If calibration based on rod-scale data leads to over-conservative predictions of scaffold's properties (as rods' successive failures are not taken into account), we show that, for a given rod diameter, calibration based on scaffold-scale data leads to very satisfactory predictions for a wide range of rod spacing, i.e. of scaffold porosity, as well as for different loading conditions. This work establishes the proposed model as a reliable tool for understanding and optimizing cellular ceramics' mechanical properties.","4":"Improving mechanical response of materials is of great interest in a wide range of disciplines, including biomechanics, tribology, geology, optoelectronics, and nanotechnology. It has been long recognized that spatial gradients in surface composition and structure can improve the mechanical integrity of a material. This review surveys recent results of sliding-contact, flexural, and fatigue tests on graded ceramic materials from our laboratories and elsewhere. Although our findings are examined in the context of possible applications for next-generation, graded all-ceramic dental restorations, implications of our studies have broad impact on biomedical, civil, structural, and an array of other engineering applications.","5":"Alumina is the most commonly used ceramic in orthopedics due mainly to its wear resistance and chemical inertness. However, alumina has relatively low load-bearing capacity compared to other advanced ceramics, such as zirconia. We hypothesized that grading the elastic modulus at the surfaces may substantially increase the load-bearing capacity of alumina. In this study, graded structures were fabricated by infiltrating glass into dense alumina plates, resulting in a diminished modulus at the surface layers. The plates were then bonded to polycarbonate substrates and subjected to flexural loading with various loading rates spanning five orders of magnitude (dynamic fatigue) in water. Infiltrated specimens showed an increase in flexural load over homogenous controls for all loading rates, despite the graded alumina exhibiting greater load rate dependence than their homogenous counterparts. Our results indicate that controlled elastic gradients at the surface could be highly beneficial in improving the load-bearing capacity of alumina ceramics."},"articletitle":{"0":null,"1":"Enhanced oxidation resistance of SiC\/SiC minicomposites via slurry infiltration of oxide layers.","2":"A novel processing approach for free-standing porous non-oxide ceramic supports from polycarbosilane and polysilazane precursors.","3":"A two-scale Weibull approach to the failure of porous ceramic structures made by robocasting: possibilities and limits.","4":"Overview: Damage resistance of graded ceramic restorative materials.","5":"Load-bearing increase in alumina evoked by introduction of a functional glass gradient."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Journal of the European Ceramic Society","1":"Journal of the European Ceramic Society","2":"Journal of the European Ceramic Society","3":"Journal of the European Ceramic Society","4":"Journal of the European Ceramic Society","5":"Journal of the European Ceramic Society"},"keyword":{"0":"Bioactive glassesChondrogenesisCobaltHypoxia-inducible factor-1Mesenchymal stem cells","1":"Ceramic matrix minicompositesCreep resistanceMullite coatingOxidation resistanceSlurry infiltration","2":"PolycarbosilanePolymer-derived ceramicsPolysilazanePorositySupport","3":"Biomedical applicationsCellular ceramicsFractureMechanical propertiesStrength","4":"","5":""},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":29456294,"1":32020993,"2":26339126,"3":23439936,"4":22778494,"5":22639492},"pubdate_year":{"0":2018,"1":2017,"2":2015,"3":2013,"4":2012,"5":2012}}