{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54,"55":55,"56":56,"57":57,"58":58,"59":59,"60":60,"61":61,"62":62,"63":63,"64":64,"65":65,"66":66,"67":67,"68":68,"69":69,"70":70,"71":71,"72":72,"73":73,"74":74,"75":75,"76":76,"77":77,"78":78,"79":79,"80":80,"81":81,"82":82,"83":83,"84":84,"85":85,"86":86,"87":87,"88":88,"89":89,"90":90,"91":91,"92":92,"93":93,"94":94,"95":95,"96":96,"97":97,"98":98,"99":99,"100":100,"101":101},"abstracttext":{"0":"The N-terminal domain (NTD) of nuclear receptor superfamily members has been recently reported to regulate functions of the receptor through the interaction between the NTD and the C-terminal ligand binding domain (LBD), so-called an N\/C interaction. Although this N\/C interaction has been demonstrated in various nuclear receptors, eg, androgen receptor, this concept has not been observed in glucocorticoid receptor (GR). We hypothesized that GR requires its co-chaperone CCRP (cytoplasmic constitutive active\/androstane receptor retention protein) to form a stable N\/C interaction. This hypothesis was examined by co-immunoprecipitation assays using GR fragments overexpressing COS-1 cell lysate. Here, we demonstrated that GR undergoes the N\/C interaction between the 26VMDFY30 motif in the NTD and the LBD. More importantly, co-chaperone CCRP is now found to induce this interaction. By the fact that a negative charge at Y30 disrupts this interaction, this residue, a potential phosphorylation site, was indicated to regulate the GR N\/C interaction critically. Utilizing Y30F and Y30E mutants as N\/C interacting and noninteracting forms of GR, respectively, a 2-dimensional blue native\/sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was performed to examine whether or not the N\/C interaction regulated formation of GR complexes. A cDNA microarray analysis was performed with COS-1 cells expressing Y30F or Y30E. We will present experimental data to demonstrate that CCRP is essential for GR to form the N\/C interaction and will discuss its implications in GR functions.","1":null,"2":null,"3":null,"4":"Cell cycle progression is tightly controlled by several kinase families including Cyclin-Dependent Kinases, Polo-Like Kinases, and Aurora Kinases. A large amount of data show that steroid hormone receptors and various components of the cell cycle, including cell cycle regulated kinases, interact, and this often results in altered transcriptional activity of the receptor. Furthermore, steroid hormones, through their receptors, can also regulate the transcriptional expression of genes that are required for cell cycle regulation. However, emerging data suggest that steroid hormone receptors may have roles in cell cycle progression independent of their transcriptional activity. The following is a review of how steroid receptors and their coregulators can regulate or be regulated by the cell cycle machinery, with a particular focus on roles independent of transcription in G2\/M. ","5":"Glucocorticoids (GC) are a cornerstone of combination therapies for multiple myeloma. However, patients ultimately develop resistance to GCs frequently based on decreased glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression. An understanding of the direct targets of GC actions, which induce cell death, is expected to culminate in potential therapeutic strategies for inducing cell death by regulating downstream targets in the absence of a functional GR. The specific goal of our research is to identify primary GR targets that contribute to GC-induced cell death, with the ultimate goal of developing novel therapeutics around these targets that can be used to overcome resistance to GCs in the absence of GR. Using the MM.1S glucocorticoid-sensitive human myeloma cell line, we began with the broad platform of gene expression profiling to identify glucocorticoid-regulated genes further refined by combination treatment with phosphatidylinositol-3'-kinase inhibition (PI3Ki). To further refine the search to distinguish direct and indirect targets of GR that respond to the combination GC and PI3Ki treatment of MM.1S cells, we integrated 1) gene expression profiles of combination GC treatment with PI3Ki, which induces synergistic cell death; 2) negative correlation between genes inhibited by combination treatment in MM.1S cells and genes over-expressed in myeloma patients to establish clinical relevance and 3) GR chromatin immunoprecipitation with massively parallel sequencing (ChIP-Seq) in myeloma cells to identify global chromatin binding for the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Using established bioinformatics platforms, we have integrated these data sets to identify a subset of candidate genes that may form the basis for a comprehensive picture of glucocorticoid actions in multiple myeloma. As a proof of principle, we have verified two targets, namely RRM2 and BCL2L1, as primary functional targets of GR involved in GC-induced cell death.","6":"The high regenerative capacity of adult skeletal muscle relies on a self-renewing depot of adult stem cells, termed muscle satellite cells (MSCs). Androgens, known mediators of overall body composition and specifically skeletal muscle mass, have been shown to regulate MSCs. The possible overlapping function of androgen regulation of muscle growth and MSC activation has not been carefully investigated with regards to muscle regeneration.Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine coinciding androgen-mediated genetic changes in an in vitro MSC model and clinically relevant in vivo models. A gene signature was established via microarray analysis for androgen-mediated MSC engagement and highlighted several markers including follistatin (FST), IGF-1, C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR). In an in vivo muscle atrophy model, androgen re-supplementation significantly increased muscle size and expression of IGF-1, FST, and HGF, while significantly decreasing expression of GR. Biphasic gene expression profiles over the 7-day re-supplementation period identified temporal androgen regulation of molecular targets involved in satellite cell engagement into myogenesis. In a muscle injury model, removal of androgens resulted in delayed muscle recovery and regeneration. Modifications in the androgen signaling gene signature, along with reduced Pax7 and MyoD expression, suggested that limited MSC activation and increased inflammation contributed to the delayed regeneration. However, enhanced MSC activation in the androgen-deplete mouse injury model was driven by an androgen receptor (AR) agonist. These results provide novel in vitro and in vivo evidence describing molecular targets of androgen signaling, while also increasing support for translational use of AR agonists in skeletal muscle recovery and regeneration.","7":null,"8":"Steroid receptors of the nuclear receptor superfamily are proposed to be either: 1) located in the cytosol and moved to the cell nucleus upon activation, 2) tethered to the inside of the plasma membrane, or 3) retained in the nucleus until free steroid hormone enters and activates specific receptors. Using computational methods to analyze peptide receptor topology, we find that the \"classical\" nuclear receptors for progesterone (PRB\/PGR), androgen (ARB\/AR) and estrogen (ER1\/ESR1) contain two transmembrane helices (TMH) within their ligand-binding domains (LBD).The MEMSAT-SVM algorithm indicates that ARB and ER2 (but not PRB or ER1) contain a pore-lining (channel-forming) region which may merge with other pore-lining regions to form a membrane channel. ER2 lacks a TMH, but contains a single pore-lining region. The MemBrain algorithm predicts that PRB, ARB and ER1 each contain one TMH plus a half TMH separated by 51 amino acids.ER2 contains two half helices. The TM-2 helices of ARB, ER1 and ER2 each contain 9-13 amino acid motifs reported to translocate the receptor to the plasma membrane, as well as cysteine palmitoylation sites. PoreWalker analysis of X-ray crystallographic data identifies a pore or channel within the LBDs of ARB and ER1 and predicts that 70 and 72 residues are pore-lining residues, respectively. The data suggest that (except for ER2), cytosolic receptors become anchored to the plasma membrane following synthesis. Half-helices and pore-lining regions in turn form functional ion channels and\/or facilitate passive steroid uptake into the cell. In perspective, steroid-dependent insertion of \"classical\" receptors containing pore-lining regions into the plasma membrane may regulate permeability to ions such as Ca(2+), Na(+) or K(+), as well as facilitate steroid translocation into the nucleus. ","9":null,"10":null,"11":"The field of nuclear receptor and coregulator signaling has grown into one of the most active and interdisciplinary in eukaryotic biology. Papers in this field are spread widely across a vast number of journals, which complicates the task of investigators in keeping current with the literature in the field. In 2003, we launched Nuclear Receptor Signaling as an Open Access reviews, perspectives and methods journal for the nuclear receptor signaling field. Building on its success and impact on the community, we have added primary research and dataset articles to this list of article categories, and we now announce the re-launch of the journal this month. Here we will summarize the rationale that informed the creation and expansion of the journal, and discuss the possibilities for its future development. ","12":"Molecular chaperones encompass a group of unrelated proteins that facilitate the correct assembly and disassembly of other macromolecular structures, which they themselves do not remain a part of. They associate with a large and diverse set of coregulators termed cochaperones that regulate their function and specificity. Amongst others, chaperones and cochaperones regulate the activity of several signaling molecules including steroid receptors, which upon ligand binding interact with discrete nucleotide sequences within the nucleus to control the expression of diverse physiological and developmental genes. Molecular chaperones and cochaperones are typically known to provide the correct conformation for ligand binding by the steroid receptors. While this contribution is widely accepted, recent studies have reported that they further modulate steroid receptor action outside ligand binding. They are thought to contribute to receptor turnover, transport of the receptor to different subcellular localizations, recycling of the receptor on chromatin and even stabilization of the DNA-binding properties of the receptor. In addition to these combined effects with molecular chaperones, cochaperones are reported to have additional functions that are independent of molecular chaperones. Some of these functions also impact on steroid receptor action. Two well-studied examples are the cochaperones p23 and Bag-1L, which have been identified as modulators of steroid receptor activity in nuclei. Understanding details of their regulatory action will provide new therapeutic opportunities of controlling steroid receptor action independent of the widespread effects of molecular chaperones. ","13":null,"14":null,"15":"Glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that bind to and activate the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), which then positively or negatively regulates transcription of many genes that govern multiple important physiological pathways such as inflammation and metabolism of glucose, fat and bone. The remodeling of chromatin and regulated assembly or disassembly of active transcription complexes by GR and other DNA-binding transcription factors is mediated and modulated by several hundred transcriptional coregulator proteins. Previous studies focusing on single coregulators demonstrated that each coregulator is required for regulation of only a subset of all the genes regulated by a steroid hormone. We hypothesized that the gene-specific patterns of coregulators may correspond to specific physiological pathways such that different coregulators modulate the pathway-specificity of hormone action, thereby providing a mechanism for fine tuning of the hormone response. We tested this by direct comparison of multiple coregulators, using siRNA to deplete the products of four steroid hormone receptor coregulator genes (CCAR1, CCAR2, CALCOCO1 and ZNF282). Global analysis of glucocorticoid-regulated gene expression after siRNA mediated depletion of coregulators confirmed that each coregulator acted in a selective and gene-specific manner and demonstrated both positive and negative effects on glucocorticoid-regulated expression of different genes. We identified several classes of hormone-regulated genes based on the effects of coregulator depletion. Each coregulator supported hormonal regulation of some genes and opposed hormonal regulation of other genes (coregulator-modulated genes), blocked hormonal regulation of a second class of genes (coregulator-blocked genes), and had no effect on hormonal regulation of a third gene class (coregulator-independent genes). In spite of previously demonstrated physical and functional interactions among these four coregulators, the majority of the several hundred modulated and blocked genes for each of the four coregulators tested were unique to that coregulator. Finally, pathway analysis on coregulator-modulated genes supported the hypothesis that individual coregulators may regulate only a subset of the many physiological pathways controlled by glucocorticoids. We conclude that gene-specific actions of coregulators correspond to specific physiological pathways, suggesting that coregulators provide a potential mechanism for physiological fine tuning in vivo and may thus represent attractive targets for therapeutic intervention. ","16":null,"17":"The androgen receptor (AR) is expressed ubiquitously and plays a variety of roles in a vast number of physiological and pathophysiological processes. Recent studies of AR knockout (ARKO) mouse models, particularly the cell type- or tissue-specific ARKO models, have uncovered many AR cell type- or tissue-specific pathophysiological roles in mice, which otherwise would not be delineated from conventional castration and androgen insensitivity syndrome studies. Thus, the AR in various specific cell types plays pivotal roles in production and maturation of immune cells, bone mineralization, and muscle growth. In metabolism, the ARs in brain, particularly in the hypothalamus, and the liver appear to participate in regulation of insulin sensitivity and glucose homeostasis. The AR also plays key roles in cutaneous wound healing and cardiovascular diseases, including atherosclerosis and abdominal aortic aneurysm. This article will discuss the results obtained from the total, cell type-, or tissue-specific ARKO models. The understanding of AR cell type- or tissue-specific physiological and pathophysiological roles using these in vivo mouse models will provide useful information in uncovering AR roles in humans and eventually help us to develop better therapies via targeting the AR or its downstream signaling molecules to combat androgen\/AR-related diseases. ","18":"Retinoic acid (RA) is one of the principal active metabolites of vitamin A (retinol) which mediates a spectrum of critical physiological and developmental processes. Transcriptional regulation by RA is mediated primarily by members of the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) subfamily of the nuclear receptor (NR) superfamily of transcription factors. NRs bind specific genomic DNA sequence motifs and engage coregulators and components of the basal transcription machinery to effect transcriptional regulation at target gene promoters. Disruption of signaling by retinoic acid is thought to underlie the etiology of a number of inflammatory and neoplastic diseases including breast cancer and haematological malignancies. A meeting of international researchers in retinoid signaling was convened in Strasbourg in September 2011 under the auspices of the European Molecular Biology Organization (EMBO). Retinoids 2011 encompassed myriad mechanistic, biological and pathological aspects of these hormones and their cognate receptors, as well as setting these advances in the context of wider current questions on signaling by members of the NR superfamily.","19":null,"20":null,"21":null,"22":"Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma1 (PPARgamma1) and liver X receptor alpha (LXRalpha) are nuclear receptors that play pivotal roles in macrophage cholesterol homeostasis and inflammation; key biological processes in atherogenesis. The activation of PPARgamma1 and LXRalpha by natural or synthetic ligands results in the transactivation of ABCA1, ABCG1, and ApoE; integral players in cholesterol efflux and reverse cholesterol transport. In this review, we describe the structure, isoforms, expression pattern, and functional specificity of PPARs and LXRs. Control of PPARs and LXRs transcriptional activity by coactivators and corepressors is also highlighted. The specific roles that PPARgamma1 and LXRalpha play in inducing macrophage cholesterol efflux mediators and antagonizing macrophage inflammatory responsiveness are summarized. Finally, this review focuses on the recently reported regulatory functions that adipocyte enhancer-binding protein 1 (AEBP1) exerts on PPARgamma1 and LXRalpha transcriptional activity in the context of macrophage cholesterol homeostasis and inflammation.","23":"Identifying binding sites and target genes of transcription factors is a major biologic problem. The most commonly used current technique, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), is dependent on a high quality antibody for each protein of interest, which is not always available, and is also cumbersome, involving sequential cross-linking and reversal of cross-linking. We have developed a novel strategy to study protein DNA binding sites in vivo, which we term DamIP. By tethering a mutant form of E. coli DNA adenine methyltransferase to the target protein, the fusion protein introduces N-6-adenosine methylation to sequences proximal to the protein binding sites. DNA fragments with this modification, which is absent in eukaryotes, are detected using an antibody directed against methylated adenosine. For an initial test of the method we used human estrogen receptor alpha (hERalpha), one of the best studied transcription factors. We found that expression of Dam-hERalpha fusion proteins in MCF-7 cells introduces adenosine methylation near a series of known direct hERalpha binding sites. Specific methylation tags are also found at indirect hERalpha binding sites, including both primary binding sites for the ER interactors AP-1 and SP1, and promoters that are activated by upstream ER bound enhancers. DamIP provides a new tool for the study of DNA interacting protein function in vivo.","24":"The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha, or NR1C1) is a nuclear hormone receptor activated by a structurally diverse array of synthetic chemicals known as peroxisome proliferators. Endogenous activation of PPARalpha in liver has also been observed in certain gene knockout mouse models of lipid metabolism, implying the existence of enzymes that either generate (synthesize) or degrade endogenous PPARalpha agonists. For example, substrates involved in fatty acid oxidation can function as PPARalpha ligands. PPARalpha serves as a xenobiotic and lipid sensor to regulate energy combustion, hepatic steatosis, lipoprotein synthesis, inflammation and liver cancer. Mainly, PPARalpha modulates the activities of all three fatty acid oxidation systems, namely mitochondrial and peroxisomal beta-oxidation and microsomal omega-oxidation, and thus plays a key role in energy expenditure. Sustained activation of PPARalpha by either exogenous or endogenous agonists leads to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma resulting from sustained oxidative and possibly endoplasmic reticulum stress and liver cell proliferation. PPARalpha requires transcription coactivator PPAR-binding protein (PBP)\/mediator subunit 1(MED1) for its transcriptional activity.","25":"Nuclear receptor Rev-erbalpha (NR1D1), previously considered to be an orphan nuclear receptor, is a receptor for heme, which promotes transcriptional repression via recruitment of the NCoR-HDAC3 corepressor complex. Rev-erbalpha gene regulation is circadian, and Rev-erbalpha comprises a critical negative limb of the core circadian clock by directly repressing the expression of the positive clock component, Bmal1. Rev-erbalpha also regulates the metabolic gene pathway, thus serving as a heme sensor for coordination of circadian and metabolic pathways.","26":"The progesterone receptor (PGR) is a nuclear receptor transcription factor that is essential for female fertility, in part due to its control of oocyte release from the ovary, or ovulation. In all mammals studied to date, ovarian expression of PGR is restricted primarily to granulosa cells of follicles destined to ovulate. Granulosa cell expression of PGR is induced by the pituitary Luteinizing Hormone (LH) surge via mechanisms that are not entirely understood, but which involve activation of Protein Kinase A and modification of Sp1\/Sp3 transcription factors on the PGR promoter. Null mutations for PGR or treatment with PGR antagonists block ovulation in all species analyzed, including humans. The cellular mechanisms by which PGR regulates ovulation are currently under investigation, with several downstream pathways having been identified as PGR-regulated and potentially involved in follicular rupture. Interestingly, none of these PGR-regulated genes has been demonstrated to be a direct transcriptional target of PGR. Rather, in ovarian granulosa cells, PGR may act as an inducible coregulator for constitutively bound Sp1\/Sp3 transcription factors, which are key regulators for a discrete cohort of ovulatory genes.","27":"Nuclear hormone receptors (NHRs) represent a large and diverse family of ligand-activated transcription factors involved in regulating development, metabolic homeostasis, salt balance and reproductive health. The ligands for these receptors are typically small hydrophobic molecules such as steroid hormones, thyroid hormone, vitamin D3 and fatty acid derivatives. The first NHR structural information appeared approximately 20 years ago with the solution and crystal structures of the DNA binding domains and was followed by the structure of the agonist and antagonist bound ligand binding domains of different NHR members. Interestingly, in addition to these defined structural features, it has become clear that NHRs also possess significant structural plasticity. Thus, the dynamic structure of the NHRs was the topic of a recent stimulating and informative FASEB Summer Research Conference held in Vermont.","28":"The activity of nuclear receptors is modulated by numerous coregulatory factors. Corepressors can either mediate the ability of nuclear receptors to repress transcription, or can inhibit transactivation by nuclear receptors. As we learn more about the mechanisms of transcriptional repression, the importance of repression by nuclear receptors in development and disease has become clear. The protein encoded by the mammalian Hairless (Hr) gene was shown to be a corepressor by virtue of its functional similarity to the well-established corepressors N-CoR and SMRT. Mutation of the Hr gene results in congenital hair loss in both mice and men. Investigation of Hairless function both in vitro and in mouse models in vivo has revealed a critical role in maintaining skin and hair by regulating the differentiation of epithelial stem cells, as well as a putative role in regulating gene expression via chromatin remodeling.","29":"Progesterone is a critical regulator of normal female reproductive function, with diverse tissue-specific effects in the human. The effects of progesterone are mediated by its nuclear receptor (PR) that is expressed as two isoforms, PRA and PRB, which are virtually identical except that PRA lacks 164 amino acids that are present at the N-terminus of PRB. Considerable in vitro evidence suggests that the two PRs are functionally distinct and in animals, tissue-specific distribution patterns of PRA and PRB may account for some of the diversity of progesterone effects. In the human, PRA and PRB are equivalently expressed in most target cells, suggesting that alternative mechanisms control the diversity of progesterone actions. PR mediates the effects of progesterone by association with a range of coregulatory proteins and binding to specific target sequences in progesterone-regulated gene promoters. Ligand activation of PR results in redistribution into discrete subnuclear foci that are detectable by immunofluorescence, probably representing aggregates of multiple transcriptionally active PR-coregulator complexes. PR foci are aberrant in cancers, suggesting that the coregulator composition and number of complexes is altered. A large family of coregulators is now described and the range of proteins known to bind PR exceeds the complement required for transcriptional activation, suggesting that in the human, tissue-specific coregulator expression may modulate progesterone response. In this review, we examine the role of nuclear localization of PR, coregulator association and tissue-specific expression in modulating progesterone action in the human.","30":"Transcription from the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) promoter can be induced by progestins. The progesterone receptor (PR) binds to a cluster of five hormone responsive elements (HREs) and activates the promoter by synergistic interactions with the ubiquitous transcription factor, nuclear factor 1 (NF1). Progesterone treatment of cells in culture leads to activation of the Src\/Ras\/Erk\/Msk1 cascade. Selective inhibition of Erk, or its target kinase Msk1, interferes with chromatin remodeling and blocks MMTV activation. A complex of activated PR, Erk and Msk1 is recruited to promoter after 5 min of hormone treatment and phosphorylates histone H3 at serine 10. This modification promotes the displacement of HP1gamma and subsequent chromatin remodeling. Progestin treatment leads to the recruitment of the BAF complex, which selectively displaces histones H2A and H2B from the nucleosome containing the HREs. The acetyltransferase PCAF is also required for induction of progesterone target genes and acetylates histone H3 at K14, an epigenetic mark, which interacts with Brg1 and Brm, anchoring the BAF complex to chromatin. In nucleosomes assembled on either MMTV or mouse rDNA promoter sequences, SWI\/SNF displaces histones H2A and H2B from MMTV, but not from the rDNA nucleosome. Thus, the outcome of nucleosome remodeling by purified SWI\/SNF depends on DNA sequence. The resultant H3\/H4 tetramer particle is then the substrate for subsequent events in induction. Thus, initial activation of the MMTV promoter requires activation of several kinases and PCAF leading to phosphoacetylation of H3, and recruitment of BAF with subsequent removal of H2A\/H2B.","31":"Originally called retinoid X receptor interacting protein 14 (RIP14), the farnesoid X receptor (FXR) was renamed after the ability of its rat form to bind supra-physiological concentrations of farnesol. In 1999 FXR was de-orphanized since primary bile acids were identified as natural ligands. Strongly expressed in the liver and intestine, FXR has been shown to be the master transcriptional regulator of several entero-hepatic metabolic pathways with relevance to the pathophysiology of conditions such as cholestasis, fatty liver disease, cholesterol gallstone disease, intestinal inflammation and tumors. Furthermore, given the importance of FXR in the gut-liver axis feedbacks regulating lipid and glucose homeostasis, FXR modulation appears to have great input in diseases such as metabolic syndrome and diabetes. Exciting results from several cellular and animal models have provided the impetus to develop synthetic FXR ligands as novel pharmacological agents. Fourteen years from its discovery, FXR has gone from bench to bedside; a novel nuclear receptor ligand is going into clinical use.","32":"Alternative mRNA splicing in the region encoding the C-terminus of nuclear receptors results in receptor variants lacking the entire ligand-binding domain (LBD), or a part of it, and instead contain a sequence of splice variant-specific C-terminal amino acids. A total of thirteen such splice variants have been shown to occur in vertebrates, and at least nine occur in humans. None of these receptor variants appear to be able to bind endogenous ligands and to induce transcription on promoters containing the response element for the respective canonical receptor variant. Interestingly, ten of these C-terminal splice variants have been shown to display dominant-negative activity on the transactivational properties of their canonical equivalent. Research on most of these splice variants has been limited, and the dominant-negative effect of these receptor variants has only been demonstrated in reporter assays in vitro, using transiently transfected receptors and reporter constructs. Therefore, the in vivo function and relevance of most C-terminal splice variants remains unclear. By reviewing the literature on the human glucocorticoid receptor beta-isoform (hGRbeta), we show that the dominant-negative effect of hGRbeta is well established using more physiologically relevant readouts. The hGR beta-isoform may alter gene transcription independent from the canonical receptor and increased hGRbeta levels correlate with glucocorticoid resistance and the occurrence of several immune-related diseases. Thus, available data suggests that C-terminal splice variants of nuclear receptors act as dominant-negative inhibitors of receptor-mediated signaling in vivo, and that aberrant expression of these isoforms may be involved in the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases.","33":"Here, I review the developmental expression features of genes encoding the retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and the 'retinoid X' or rexinoid receptors (RXRs). The first detailed expression studies were performed in the mouse over two decades ago, following the cloning of the murine Rar genes. These studies revealed complex expression features at all stages of post-implantation development, one receptor gene (Rara) showing widespread expression, the two others (Rarb and Rarg) with highly regionalized and\/or cell type-specific expression in both neural and non-neural tissues. Rxr genes also have either widespread (Rxra, Rxrb), or highly-restricted (Rxrg) expression patterns. Studies performed in zebrafish and Xenopus demonstrated expression of Rar and Rxr genes (both maternal and zygotic), at early pre-gastrulation stages. The eventual characterization of specific enzymes involved in the synthesis of retinoic acid (retinol\/retinaldehyde dehydrogenases), or the triggering of its catabolism (CYP26 cytochrome P450s), all of them showing differential expression patterns, led to a clearer understanding of the phenomenons regulated by retinoic acid signaling during development. Functional studies involving targeted gene disruptions in the mouse, and additional approaches such as dominant negative receptor expression in other models, have pinpointed the specific, versus partly redundant, roles of the RARs and RXRs in many developing organ systems. These pleiotropic roles are summarized hereafter in relationship to the receptors' expression patterns.","34":"Nuclear retinoic acid receptors (RARs) are transcriptional regulators controlling the expression of specific subsets of genes in a ligand-dependent manner. The basic mechanism for switching on transcription of cognate target genes involves RAR binding at specific response elements and a network of interactions with coregulatory protein complexes, the assembly of which is directed by the C-terminal ligand-binding domain of RARs. In addition to this scenario, new roles for the N-terminal domain and the ubiquitin-proteasome system recently emerged. Moreover, the functions of RARs are not limited to the regulation of cognate target genes, as they can transrepress other gene pathways. Finally, RARs are also involved in nongenomic biological activities such as the activation of translation and of kinase cascades. Here we will review these mechanisms, focusing on how kinase signaling and the proteasome pathway cooperate to influence the dynamics of RAR transcriptional activity.","35":"Subcellular compartmentalisation and the intracellular movement of nuclear receptors are major regulatory steps in executing their transcriptional function. Though significant progress has been made in understanding these regulatory processes in cultured mammalian cells, such results have rarely been confirmed within cells of a living mammal. This article describes a simple, time-efficient approach to study the nuclear versus cytoplasmic accumulation of nuclear receptors and the regions of nuclear receptor proteins that govern subcellular trafficking within hepatocytes of live mice. Pregnane X receptor, a xenobiotic-activated member of the nuclear receptor family, was used to exemplify the approach. Using dual-labeled wild-type and mutant PXR expression constructs, we outline their in vivo delivery, simultaneous cellular expression, visualization and categorical classification within hepatocytes of live mice. Using this approach, we identified three mutants that had an altered subcellular distribution in the presence and absence of a PXR ligand. This novel in vivo method complements the current cell culture-based experimental systems in protein subcellular localisation studies.","36":"The last few years have witnessed a rapid increase in our knowledge of the retinoid-related orphan receptors RORalpha, -beta, and -gamma (NR1F1-3), their mechanism of action, physiological functions, and their potential role in several pathologies. The characterization of ROR-deficient mice and gene expression profiling in particular have provided great insights into the critical functions of RORs in the regulation of a variety of physiological processes. These studies revealed that RORalpha plays a critical role in the development of the cerebellum, that both RORalpha and RORbeta are required for the maturation of photoreceptors in the retina, and that RORgamma is essential for the development of several secondary lymphoid tissues, including lymph nodes. RORs have been further implicated in the regulation of various metabolic pathways, energy homeostasis, and thymopoiesis. Recent studies identified a critical role for RORgamma in lineage specification of uncommitted CD4+ T helper cells into Th17 cells. In addition, RORs regulate the expression of several components of the circadian clock and may play a role in integrating the circadian clock and the rhythmic pattern of expression of downstream (metabolic) genes. Study of ROR target genes has provided insights into the mechanisms by which RORs control these processes. Moreover, several reports have presented evidence for a potential role of RORs in several pathologies, including osteoporosis, several autoimmune diseases, asthma, cancer, and obesity, and raised the possibility that RORs may serve as potential targets for chemotherapeutic intervention. This prospect was strengthened by recent evidence showing that RORs can function as ligand-dependent transcription factors.","37":"Retinoids, the active metabolites of vitamin A, regulate complex gene networks involved in vertebrate morphogenesis, growth, cellular differentiation and homeostasis. Studies performed in vitro, using either acellular systems or transfected cells, have shown that retinoid actions are mediated through heterodimers between the RAR and RXR nuclear receptors. However, in vitro studies indicate what is possible, but not necessarily what is actually occurring in vivo, because they are performed under non-physiological conditions. Therefore, genetic approaches in the animal have been be used to determine the physiological functions of retinoid receptors. Homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells has been used to generate germline null mutations of the RAR- and RXR-coding genes in the mouse. As reviewed here, the generation of such germline mutations, combined with pharmacological approaches to block the RA signalling pathway, has provided genetic evidence that RAR\/RXR heterodimers are indeed the functional units transducing the RA signal during prenatal development. However, due to (i) the complexity in \"hormonal\" signalling through transduction by the multiple RARs and RXRs, (ii) the functional redundancies (possibly artefactually generated by the mutations) within receptor isotypes belonging to a given family, and (iii) in utero or early postnatal lethality of certain germline null mutations, these genetic studies have failed to reveal all the physiological functions of RARs and RXRs, notably in adults. Spatio-temporally-controlled somatic mutations generated in given cell types\/tissues and at chosen times during postnatal life, will be required to reveal all the functions of RAR and RXR throughout the lifetime of the mouse.","38":"The steroid and xenobiotic receptor (SXR) (also known as pregnane X receptor or PXR) is a nuclear hormone receptor activated by a diverse array of endogenous hormones, dietary steroids, pharmaceutical agents, and xenobiotic compounds. SXR has an enlarged, flexible, hydrophobic ligand binding domain (LBD) which is remarkably divergent across mammalian species and SXR exhibits considerable differences in its pharmacology among mammals. The broad response profile of SXR has led to the development of \"the steroid and xenobiotic sensor hypothesis\". SXR has been established as a xenobiotic sensor that coordinately regulates xenobiotic clearance in the liver and intestine via induction of genes involved in drug and xenobiotic metabolism. In the past few years, research has revealed new and mostly unsuspected roles for SXR in modulating inflammation, bone homeostasis, vitamin D metabolism, lipid homeostasis, energy homeostasis and cancer. The identification of SXR as a xenobiotic sensor has provided an important tool for studying new mechanisms through which diet, chemical exposure, and environment ultimately impact health and disease. The discovery and pharmacological development of new PXR modulators might represent an interesting and innovative therapeutic approach to combat various diseases.","39":"Androgen receptor (AR) plays a critical role in the function of several organs including primary and accessory sexual organs, skeletal muscle, and bone, making it a desirable therapeutic target. Selective androgen receptor modulators (SARMs) bind to the AR and demonstrate osteo- and myo-anabolic activity; however, unlike testosterone and other anabolic steroids, these nonsteroidal agents produce less of a growth effect on prostate and other secondary sexual organs. SARMs provide therapeutic opportunities in a variety of diseases, including muscle wasting associated with burns, cancer, or end-stage renal disease, osteoporosis, frailty, and hypogonadism. This review summarizes the current standing of research and development of SARMs, crystallography of AR with SARMs, plausible mechanisms for their action and the potential therapeutic indications for this emerging class of drugs.","40":"The normal development and physiological functions of multicellular organisms are regulated by complex gene transcriptional networks that include myriad transcription factors, their associating coregulators, and multiple chromatin-modifying factors. Aberrant gene transcriptional regulation resulting from mutations among these elements often leads to developmental defects and diseases. This review article concentrates on the Atrophin family proteins, including vertebrate Atrophin-1 (ATN1), vertebrate arginine-glutamic acid dipeptide repeats protein (RERE), and Drosophila Atrophin (Atro), which we recently identified as nuclear receptor corepressors. Disruption of Atrophin-mediated pathways causes multiple developmental defects in mouse, zebrafish, and Drosophila, while an aberrant form of ATN1 and altered expression levels of RERE are associated with neurodegenerative disease and cancer in humans, respectively. We here provide an overview of current knowledge about these Atrophin proteins. We hope that this information on Atrophin proteins may help stimulate fresh ideas about how this newly identified class of nuclear receptor corepressors aids specific nuclear receptors and other transcriptional factors in regulating gene transcription, manifesting physiological effects, and causing diseases.","41":"Androgens control male sexual development and maintenance of the adult male phenotype. They have very divergent effects on their target organs like the reproductive organs, muscle, bone, brain and skin. This is explained in part by the fact that different cell types respond differently to androgen stimulus, even when all these responses are mediated by the same intracellular androgen receptor. To understand these tissue- and cell-specific readouts of androgens, we have to learn the many different steps in the transcription activation mechanisms of the androgen receptor (NR3C4). Like all nuclear receptors, the steroid receptors have a central DNA-binding domain connected to a ligand-binding domain by a hinge region. In addition, all steroid receptors have a relatively large amino-terminal domain. Despite the overall structural homology with other nuclear receptors, the androgen receptor has several specific characteristics which will be discussed here. This receptor can bind two types of androgen response elements (AREs): one type being similar to the classical GRE\/PRE-type elements, the other type being the more divergent and more selective AREs. The hormone-binding domain has low intrinsic transactivation properties, a feature that correlates with the low affinity of this domain for the canonical LxxLL-bearing coactivators. For the androgen receptor, transcriptional activation involves the alternative recruitment of coactivators to different regions in the amino-terminal domain, as well as the hinge region. Finally, a very strong ligand-induced interaction between the amino-terminal domain and the ligand-binding domain of the androgen receptor seems to be involved in many aspects of its function as a transcription factor. This review describes the current knowledge on the structure-function relationships within the domains of the androgen receptor and tries to integrate the involvement of different domains, subdomains and motifs in the functioning of this receptor as a transcription factor with tissue- and cell-specific readouts.","42":"Steroid hormone receptors (SHR) belong to a large family of ligand-activated transcription factors that perform their biological functions by enhancing the transcription of specific target genes. The transactivation functions of SHRs are regulated by a specialized group of proteins called coactivators. The SHR coactivators represent a growing class of proteins with various enzymatic activities that serve to modify the chromatin to facilitate the transcription of SHR target genes. The ubiquitin-proteasome pathway enzymes have also been added to the growing list of enzymatic activities that are recruited to the SHR target gene promoters during transcription. One such ubiquitin-proteasome pathway enzyme to be identified and characterized as a SHR coactivator was E6-associated protein (E6-AP). E6-AP is a hect (homologous to E6-associated protein carboxy-terminal domain) domain containing E3 ubiquitin ligase that possesses two independent separable functions; a coactivation function and an ubiquitin-protein ligase activity. Being a component of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, it is postulated that E6-AP may orchestrate the dynamics of steroid hormone receptor-mediated transcription by regulating the degradation of the transcriptional complexes. E6-AP has also been shown to be involved in the regulation of various aspects of reproduction such as prostate and mammary gland development. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that E6-AP expression is down-regulated in breast and prostate tumors and that the expression of E6-AP is inversely associated with that of estrogen and androgen receptors. This review summarizes our current knowledge about the structures, molecular mechanisms, spatiotemporal expression patterns and biological functions of E6-AP.","43":"The way in which estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) mediates gene transcription and hormone-dependent cancer cell proliferation is now being largely reconsidered in view of several recent discoveries. ERalpha-mediated transcription appears to be a cyclic and transient process where the proteasome - and thus receptor degradation - plays a pivotal role. In view of our recent investigations, which demonstrate the estrogenic activity of a synthetic peptide corresponding to a regulatory motif of the receptor (ERalpha17p), we propose that ERalpha proteasomal degradation could induce the emergence of regulatory peptide(s). The latter would function as a signal and contribute to the ERalpha activation process, amplifying the initial hormonal stimulation and giving rise to sustained estrogenic response.","44":"Recent genomic analyses of transcription factor binding, histone modification, and gene expression have provided a global view of transcriptional regulation by nuclear receptors (NRs) that complements an existing large body of literature on gene-specific studies. The picture emerging from these genomic studies indicates that NRs bind at promoter-proximal and promoter-distal enhancers in conjunction with other transcription factors (e.g., activator protein-1, Sp1 and FOXA1). This binding promotes the recruitment of coregulators that mediate the posttranslational modification of histones at promoters and enhancers. Ultimately, signaling through liganded NRs stimulates changes in the occupancy of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) or the activation of preloaded Pol II at target promoters. Chromosomal looping and\/or Pol II tracking may underlie promoter-enhancer communication. Interestingly, the direct target genes of NR signaling represent a limited subset of all the genes regulated by NR ligands, with the rest being regulated through secondary effects. As suggested by previous gene-specific analyses, NR-mediated outcomes are highly cell type- and promoter-specific, highlighting the complexity of transcriptional regulation by NRs and the value of genomic analyses for identifying commonly shared patterns. Overall, NRs share common themes in their patterns of localization and transcriptional regulation across mammalian genomes. In this review, we provide an overview of recent advances in the understanding of NR-mediated transcription garnered from genomic analyses of gene expression, factor localization, and target DNA sequences.","45":"The packaging of genomic DNA into chromatin, often viewed as an impediment to the transcription process, plays a fundamental role in the regulation of gene expression. Chromatin remodeling proteins have been shown to alter local chromatin structure and facilitate recruitment of essential factors required for transcription. Brahma-related gene-1 (BRG1), the central catalytic subunit of numerous chromatin-modifying enzymatic complexes, uses the energy derived from ATP-hydrolysis to disrupt the chromatin architecture of target promoters. In this review, we examine BRG1 as a major coregulator of transcription. BRG1 has been implicated in the activation and repression of gene expression through the modulation of chromatin in various tissues and physiological conditions. Outstanding examples are studies demonstrating that BRG1 is a necessary component for nuclear receptor-mediated transcriptional activation. The remodeling protein is also associated with transcriptional corepressor complexes which recruit remodeling activity to target promoters for gene silencing. Taken together, BRG1 appears to be a critical modulator of transcriptional regulation in cellular processes including transcriptional regulation, replication, DNA repair and recombination.","46":"The discovery of a second estrogen receptor (ER), designated ERbeta (NR3A2), has redefined our knowledge about the mechanisms underlying cellular signaling by estrogens and has broad implications for our understanding of regulation of estrogen-responsive tissues. Highly variable and even contrasting effects of estrogens in different tissues seem to be at least partially explained by different estrogen signaling pathways, involving ERalpha (NR3A1) and\/or ERbeta. To date, two key conclusions can be drawn from the significant body of work carried out on the specific roles of the two receptor subtypes in diverse estrogen target tissues. First, ERalpha and ERbeta have different biological functions, as indicated by their specific expression patterns and the distinct phenotypes observed in ERalpha and ERbeta knockout (alphaERKO and betaERKO) mice. Second, ERalpha and ERbeta appear to have overlapping but also unique sets of downstream target genes, as judged from a set of microarray experiments. Thus, ERalpha and ERbeta have different transcriptional activities in certain ligand, cell-type, and promoter contexts, which may help to explain some of the major differences in their tissue-specific biological actions. The phenotypes observed for betaERKO mice have suggested certain therapeutic areas to be further explored. The development of ERbeta-selective ligands active in animal disease models indicates new avenues for clinical exploration. ERbeta agonists are being explored and validated as drugs for a growing number of indications. Hopefully, some ERbeta targeted drugs will prove to be efficient in enhancing human health.","47":"NCoA6 (also referred to as NRC, ASC-2, TRBP, PRIP and RAP250) was originally isolated as a ligand-dependent nuclear receptor interacting protein. However, NCoA6 is a multifunctional coregulator or coactivator necessary for transcriptional activation of a wide spectrum of target genes. The NCoA6 gene is amplified and overexpressed in breast, colon and lung cancers. NCoA6 is a 250 kDa protein which harbors a potent N-terminal activation domain, AD1; and a second, centrally-located activation domain, AD2, which is necessary for nuclear receptor signaling. The intrinsic activation potential of NCoA6 is regulated by its C-terminal STL regulatory domain. Near AD2 is an LxxLL-1 motif which interacts with a wide spectrum of ligand-bound NRs with high-affinity. A second LxxLL motif (LxxLL-2) located towards the C-terminal region is more restricted in its NR specificity. The potential role of NCoA6 as a co-integrator is suggested by its ability to enhance transcriptional activation of a wide variety of transcription factors and from its in vivo association with a number of known cofactors including CBP\/p300. NCoA6 has been shown to associate with at least three distinct coactivator complexes containing Set methyltransferases as core polypeptides. The composition of these complexes suggests that NCoA6 may play a fundamental role in transcriptional activation by modulating chromatin structure through histone methylation. Knockout studies in mice suggest that NCoA6 is an essential coactivator. NCoA6-\/- embryos die between 8.5-12.5 dpc from general growth retardation coupled with developmental defects in the heart, liver, brain and placenta. NCoA6-\/- MEFs grow at a reduced rate compared to WT MEFs and spontaneously undergo apoptosis, indicating the importance of NCoA6 as a prosurvival and anti-apoptotic gene. Studies with NCoA6+\/- and conditional knockout mice suggest that NCoA6 is a pleiotropic coregulator involved in growth, development, wound healing and maintenance of energy homeostasis.","48":"The androgen receptor (AR) is a critical effector of prostate cancer development and progression. The dependence of this tumor type on AR activity is exploited in treatment of disseminated prostate cancers, wherein ablation of AR function (achieved either through ligand depletion and\/or the use of AR antagonists) is the first line of therapeutic intervention. These strategies are initially effective, and induce a mixed response of cell cycle arrest or apoptosis in prostate cancer cells. However, recurrent, incurable tumors ultimately arise as a result of inappropriately restored AR function. Based on these observations, it is imperative to define the mechanisms by which AR controls cancer cell proliferation. Mechanistic investigation has revealed that AR acts as a master regulator of G1-S phase progression, able to induce signals that promote G1 cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) activity, induce phosphorylation\/inactivation of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor (RB), and thereby govern androgen-dependent proliferation. These functions appear to be independent of the recently identified TMPRSS2-ETS fusions. Once engaged, several components of the cell cycle machinery actively modulate AR activity throughout the cell cycle, thus indicating that crosstalk between the AR and cell cycle pathways likely modulate the mitogenic response to androgen. As will be discussed, discrete aberrations in this process can alter the proliferative response to androgen, and potentially subvert hormonal control of tumor progression.","49":"The last decade has witnessed tremendous progress in the understanding of the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), its molecular mechanism of action, and its implications for physiology and pathophysiology. After the initial cloning of MR, and identification of its gene structure and promoters, it now appears as a major actor in protein-protein interaction networks. The role of transcriptional coregulators and the determinants of mineralocorticoid selectivity have been elucidated. Targeted oncogenesis and transgenic mouse models have identified unexpected sites of MR expression and novel roles for MR in non-epithelial tissues. These experimental approaches have contributed to the generation of new cell lines for the characterization of aldosterone signaling pathways, and have also facilitated a better understanding of MR physiology in the heart, vasculature, brain and adipose tissues. This review describes the structure, molecular mechanism of action and transcriptional regulation mediated by MR, emphasizing the most recent developments at the cellular and molecular level. Finally, through insights obtained from mouse models and human disease, its role in physiology and pathophysiology will be reviewed. Future investigations of MR biology should lead to new therapeutic strategies, modulating cell-specific actions in the management of cardiovascular disease, neuroprotection, mineralocorticoid resistance, and metabolic disorders.","50":"Although the importance of the progesterone receptor (PR) to female reproductive and mammary gland biology is firmly established, the coregulators selectively co-opted by PR in these systems have not been clearly delineated. A selective gene-knockout approach applied to the mouse, which abrogates gene function only in cell types that express PR, recently disclosed steroid receptor coactivator 2 (SRC-2, also known as TIF-2 or GRIP-1) to be an indispensable coregulator for uterine and mammary gland responses that require progesterone. Uterine cells positive for PR (but devoid of SRC-2) were found to be incapable of facilitating embryo implantation, a necessary first step toward the establishment of the materno-fetal interface. Importantly, such an implantation defect is not exhibited by knockouts for SRC-1 or SRC-3, underscoring the unique coregulator importance of SRC-2 in peri-implantation biology. Moreover, despite normal levels of PR, SRC-1 and SRC-3, progesterone-dependent branching morphogenesis and alveologenesis fails to occur in the murine mammary gland in the absence of SRC-2, thereby establishing a critical coregulator role for SRC-2 in signaling cascades that mediate progesterone-induced mammary epithelial proliferation. Finally, the recent detection of SRC-2 in the human endometrium and breast suggests that this coregulator may represent a new clinical target for the future management of female reproductive health and\/or breast cancer.","51":"Nuclear receptors (NRs) rely on coregulators (coactivators and corepressors) to modulate the transcription of target genes. By interacting with nucleosome remodeling complexes, NR coactivators potentiate transcription, whereas corepressors inhibit transcription of the target genes. Metastasis-associated proteins (MTA) represent an emerging family of novel NR coregulators. In general, MTA family members form independent nucleosome remodeling and deacetylation (NuRD) complexes and repress the transcription of different genes by recruiting histone deacetylases onto their target genes. However, MTA1 also acts as a coactivator in a promoter-context dependent manner. Recent findings that repression of estrogen receptor transactivation functions by MTA1, MTA1s, and MTA2 and regulation of MTA3 by estrogen signaling have indicated the significance of these proteins in NR signaling. Here, we highlight the action of MTA proteins on NR signaling and their roles in pathophysiological conditions.","52":"Members of the NR3B group of the nuclear receptor superfamily, known as the estrogen-related receptors (ERRs), were the first orphan receptors to be identified two decades ago. Despite the fact that a natural ligand has yet to be associated with the ERRs, considerable knowledge about their mode of action and biological functions has emerged through extensive biochemical, genetic and functional genomics studies. This review describes our current understanding of how the ERRs work as transcription factors and as such, how they control diverse developmental and physiological programs.","53":"Alien has characteristics of a corepressor for selected members of the nuclear hormone receptor (NHR) superfamily and also for transcription factors involved in cell cycle regulation and DNA repair. Alien mediates gene silencing and represses the transactivation of specific NHRs and other transcription factors to modulate hormone response and cell proliferation. Alien is a highly conserved protein and is expressed in a wide variety of tissues. Knockout of the gene encoding Alien in mice is embryonic lethal at a very early stage, indicating an important evolutionary role in multicellular organisms. From a mechanistic perspective, the corepressor function of Alien is in part mediated by histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity. In addition, Alien seems to modulate nucleosome assembly activity. This suggests that Alien is acting on chromatin not only through recruitment of histone-modifying activities, but also through enhancing nucleosome assembly.","54":"Several methods are currently employed to evaluate expression of steroid hormone receptors in tissues and cells, including real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR) and western blot assays. These methods require homogenization of cells, thereby preventing evaluation of individual cells or specific cell types in a given tissue sample. In addition, methods such as real-time RT-PCR assess mRNA levels, which may be subject to posttranslational modifications that prevent subsequent production of functional proteins. Flow cytometry is a fluorescence-based technique commonly used to evaluate expression of cell surface and intracellular proteins. This method is especially useful as it allows for single-cell analysis and can be utilized to determine the amount of receptor expressed by individual cells. Flow cytometry is commonly used to analyze immune cell activity and determine functionality based on changes in expression of cell surface molecules, as well as intracellular proteins (such as cytokines). Here, we describe a method to identify protein expression of steroid hormone receptors by rat leukocytes from different organs (spleen, liver and thymus) using flow cytometry. We examined expression of glucocorticoid receptor (GR), androgen receptor (AR) and progesterone receptor (PR) by cells at these sites and were able to demonstrate expression of receptors, as well as the intensity of expression of each receptor. This method is useful for rapid, high throughput measurement of steroid hormone receptors at the protein level in single, intact cells and would be valuable to determine which cells are more likely to respond to steroid hormone treatment.","55":"The steroid receptor RNA activator (SRA) is a unique modulator of steroid receptor transcriptional activity, as it is able to mediate its coregulatory effects as a RNA molecule. Recent findings, however, have painted a more complex picture of the SRA gene (SRA1) products. Indeed, even though SRA was initially thought to be noncoding, several RNA isoforms have now been found to encode an endogenous protein (SRAP), which is well conserved among Chordata. Although the function of SRAP remains largely unknown, it has been proposed that, much like its corresponding RNA, the protein itself might regulate estrogen and androgen receptor signaling pathways. As such, data suggest that both SRA and SRAP might participate in the mechanisms underlying breast, as well as prostate tumorigenesis. This review summarizes the published literature dealing with these two faces of the SRA gene products and underscores the relevance of this bifaceted system to breast cancer development.","56":"Although the primary signal for the activation of steroid hormone receptors is binding of hormone, there is increasing evidence that the activities of cell signaling pathways and the phosphorylation status of these transcription factors and their coregulators determine the overall response to the hormone. In some cases, enhanced cell signaling is sufficient to cause activation of receptors in medium depleted of steroids. Steroid receptors are targets for multiple kinases. Many of the phosphorylation sites contain Ser\/Thr-Pro motifs implicating proline-directed kinases such as the cyclin-dependent kinases and the mitogen-activated kinases (MAPK) in receptor phosphorylation. Although some sites are constitutively phosphorylated, others are phosphorylated in response to hormone. Still others are only phosphorylated in response to specific cell signaling pathways. Phosphorylation of specific sites has been implicated not only in overall transcriptional activity, but also in nuclear localization, protein stability, and DNA binding. The studies of the roles of phosphorylation in coregulator function are more limited, but it is now well established that many of them are highly phosphorylated and that phosphorylation regulates their function. There is good evidence that some of the phosphorylation sites in the receptors and coregulators are targets of multiple signaling pathways. Individual sites have been associated both with functions that enhance the activity of the receptor, as well as with functions that inhibit activity. Thus, the specific combinations of phosphorylations of the steroid receptor combined with the expression levels and phosphorylation status of coregulators will determine the genes regulated and the biological response.","57":"Proline-, glutamic acid-, and leucine-rich protein (PELP)1, also known as modulator of nongenomic actions of the estrogen receptor (MNAR), is a novel nuclear receptor coregulator with a multitude of functions. PELP1\/MNAR serves as a scaffolding protein that couples various signaling complexes with nuclear receptors and participates in genomic and nongenomic functions. Recent data suggest that PELP1\/MNAR expression is deregulated in several cancers, including breast, endometrial, prostate, and ovarian cancer, and that PELP1\/MNAR interacts with several oncogenes. In this review, we summarize the emerging biological properties and functions of PELP1\/MNAR.","58":"Transcription controlled by Steroid Hormone Receptors (SHRs) plays a key role in many important physiological processes like organ development, metabolite homeostasis, and response to external stimuli. Understandably, the members of this family have drawn a lot of attention from the scientific community since their discovery, four decades ago. Still, after many years of research we are only beginning to unravel the complex nature of these receptors. The pace at which we do has improved significantly in recent years with the discovery of genetically encoded fluorescent probes, and the accompanying revival of biophysical approaches that allow more detailed study of SHRs. Here, we will look into the different aspects of SHR signalling, and discuss how biophysical techniques have contributed to visualizing their function in their native context, the living cell.","59":"Steroid hormones are a diverse class of structurally related molecules, derived from cholesterol, that include androgens, estrogens, progesterone and corticosteroids. They represent an important group of physiologically active signalling molecules that bind intracellular receptor proteins and regulate genes involved in developmental, reproductive and metabolic processes. The receptor proteins share structurally and functionally related ligand binding and DNA-binding domains, but possess distinct N-terminal domains (NTD) of unique length and amino acids sequence. The NTD contains sequences important for gene regulation, exhibit structure plasticity and are likely to contribute to the specificity of the steroid hormone\/receptor response.","60":"The Glutathione-S-Transferase (GST) \"pulldown\" assay has been used extensively to assay protein interactions in vitro. This methodology has been especially useful for investigating the interactions of nuclear hormone receptors with a wide variety of their interacting partners and coregulatory proteins. Unfortunately, the original GST-pulldown technique relies on multiple binding, washing and elution steps performed in individual microfuge tubes, and requires repeated centrifugation, aspiration, and suspension steps. This type of batch processing creates a significant liquid handling bottleneck, limiting the number of sample points that can be incorporated into one experiment and producing inherently less efficient washing and elution than would a flow-through methodology. In this manuscript, we describe the adaptation of this GST-pulldown assay to a 96-well filter plate format. The use of a multi-well filter plate makes it possible to assay more samples in significantly less time using less reagents and more efficient sample processing than does the traditional single tube assay.","61":"The nuclear receptor superfamily comprises ligand-regulated transcription factors that control various developmental and physiological pathways. These receptors share a common modular structure and regulate gene expression through the recruitment of a large set of coregulatory proteins. These transcription cofactors regulate, either positively or negatively, chromatin structure and transcription initiation. One of the first proteins to be identified as a hormone-recruited cofactor was RIP140. Despite its recruitment by agonist-liganded receptors, RIP140 exhibits a strong transcriptional repressive activity which involves several inhibitory domains and different effectors. Interestingly, the RIP140 gene, located on chromosome 21 in humans, is finely regulated at the transcriptional level by various nuclear receptors. In addition, the protein undergoes several post-translational modifications which control its repressive activity. Finally, experiments performed in mice devoid of the RIP140 gene indicate that this transcriptional cofactor is essential for female fertility and energy homeostasis. RIP140 therefore appears to be an important modulator of nuclear receptor activity which could play major roles in physiological processes and hormone-dependent diseases.","62":"The Women's Health Initiative Studies (WHI) were designed to examine the effects of estrogen and progestin (E+P; Prempro) and estrogen alone (Premarin) in post-menopausal women. The authors of the WHI studies and the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) concluded that E+P treatment increased the risks of coronary heart disease, invasive breast cancer, stroke and venous thromboembolism. The following paper contains a reevaluation of these studies based on the graphic analysis of their tabulated data. In contrast to the conclusions reached by the WHI and the NHLBI, I conclude that treatment of post-menopausal women with estrogen and progestin (Prempro) does not increase the risks of cardiovascular disease, invasive breast cancer, stroke or venous thromboembolism. I also disagree with the claim that an increased risk of stroke existed in women treated with estrogen alone.","63":"The functional consequences of the interaction of transcriptional coregulators with the human thyroid hormone receptor (TR) in mammalian cells are complex. We have used the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which lack endogenous nuclear receptors (NRs) and NR coregulators, as a model to decipher mechanisms regulating transcriptional activation by TR. In effect, this system allows the reconstitution of TR mediated transcription complexes by the expression of specific combinations of mammalian proteins in yeast. In this yeast system, human adenovirus 5 early region 1A (E1A), a natural N-CoR splice variant (N-CoR(I)) or an artificial N-CoR truncation (N-CoR(C)) coactivate unliganded TRs and these effects are inhibited by thyroid hormone (TH). E1A contains a short peptide sequence that resembles known corepressor-NR interaction motifs (CoRNR box motif, CBM), and this motif is required for TR binding and coactivation. N-CoR(I) and N-CoR(C) contain three CBMs, but only the C-terminal CBM1 is critical for coactivation. These observations in a yeast model system suggest that E1A and N-CoR(I) are naturally occurring TR coactivators that bind in the typical corepressor mode. These findings also raise the possibility that alternative splicing events which form corepressor proteins containing only C-terminal CBM motifs could represent a novel mechanism in mammalian cells for regulating constitutive transcriptional activation by TRs.","64":"Bioluminescent resonance energy transfer (BRET2) is a recently developed technology for the measurement of protein-protein interactions in a live, cell-based system. BRET2 is characterized by the efficient transfer of excited energy between a bioluminescent donor molecule (Renilla luciferase) and a fluorescent acceptor molecule (a mutant of Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP2). The BRET2 assay offers advantages over fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) because it does not require an external light source thereby eliminating problems of photobleaching and autoflourescence. The absence of contamination by light results in low background that permits detection of very small changes in the BRET2 signal. BRET2 is dependent on the orientation and distance between two fusion proteins and therefore requires extensive preliminary standardization experiments to conclude a positive BRET2 signal independent of variations in protein titrations and arrangement in tertiary structures. Estrogen receptor (ER) signaling is modulated by steroid receptor coactivator 1 (SRC-1). To establish BRET2 in a ligand inducible system we used SRC-1 as the donor moiety and ER as the acceptor moiety. Expression and functionality of the fusion proteins were assessed by transient transfection in HEK-293 cells followed by Western blot analysis and measurement of ER-dependent reporter gene activity. These preliminary determinations are required prior to measuring nuclear receptor protein-protein interactions by BRET2. This article describes in detail the BRET2 methodology for measuring interaction between full-length ER and coregulator proteins in real-time, in an in vivo environment.","65":"Thyroid hormone (TH) action is mediated principally through binding of the hormone ligand, 3,3,5-triiodothyronine (T3), to TH receptors (TRs). This hormone-receptor interaction recruits other proteins to form complexes that regulate gene expression by binding to DNA sequences in the promoter of target genes. We recently described an extranuclear mechanism of TH action that consists of the association of TH-liganded TRbeta with p85alpha [regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)] in the cytosol and subsequent activation of the PI3K, generating phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P3]. This initiates the activation of a signaling cascade by phosphorylation of Akt, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and its substrate p70(S6K), leading to the stimulation of ZAKI-4alpha synthesis, a calcineurin inhibitor. Furthermore, we found that this same mechanism leads to induction of the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1alpha), and its target genes, glucose transporter (GLUT)1, platelet-type phosphofructokinase (PFKP), and monocarboxylate transporter (MCT) 4. These genes are of special interest, because their products have important roles in cellular glucose metabolism, from glucose uptake (GLUT1) to glycolysis (PFKP) and lactate export (MCT4). These results demonstrate that the TH-TRbeta complex can exert a non-genomic action in the cytosol leading to changes in gene expression by direct (HIF-1alpha) and indirect (ZAKI-4alpha, GLUT1, PFKP) means.","66":"In recent years, numerous nuclear receptor-interacting proteins have been identified that influence nuclear transcription through their direct modification of chromatin. Along with coactivators that possess histone acetyltransferase (HAT) or methyltransferase activity, other coactivators that lack recognizable chromatin-modifying activity have been discovered whose mechanism of action is largely unknown. The presence of multiple protein-protein interaction motifs within mechanistically undefined coactivators suggests that they function as adaptor molecules, either recruiting or stabilizing promoter-specific protein complexes. This perspective will focus on a family of nuclear receptor coactivators (i.e., group III LIM domain proteins related to paxillin) that appear to provide a scaffold to stabilize receptor interactions with chromatin-modifying coregulators.","67":"Large-scale genomics analyses have grown by leaps and bounds with the rapid advances in high throughput DNA sequencing and synthesis techniques. Nuclear receptor signaling is ideally suited to genomics studies because receptors function as ligand-regulated gene switches. This review will survey the strengths and limitations of three major classes of high throughput techniques widely used in the nuclear receptor field to characterize ligand-dependent gene regulation: expression profiling studies (microarrays, SAGE and related techniques), chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by microarray (ChIP-on-chip), and genome-wide in silico hormone response element screens. We will discuss each technique, and how each has contributed to our understanding of nuclear receptor signaling.","68":"The androgen receptor (AR) plays a critical role in male sexual development and in normal and malignant prostate cell growth and survival. It has been shown that AR transcriptional activation is regulated through interactions with a variety of transcriptional co-regulators. The Protein Inhibitors of Activated STATs (PIAS) are transcriptional co-regulators, and have been shown to modulate AR-mediated transcription. In this brief, we summarize our recent studies on two novel PIAS-like proteins, Zimp7 and Zimp10. Particularly, we address the functional interactions between the AR and these two proteins, and potential mechanisms by which they regulate AR mediated transcription. In addition, we explore potential roles of Zimp10 in transcriptional regulation in vivo using a recent Zimp10 knockout mouse model. Taken together, our findings thus far suggest that Zimp7 and Zimp10 are functionally non-redundant and share unique characteristics that have not been described for the PIAS family. Further investigation into the functional roles of these two PIAS-like proteins may help to better understand prostate cancer progression, and yield possible new targets for therapeutic intervention.","69":"Estrogen receptors (ERs) and the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) are ligand activated transcription factors and members of the nuclear receptor and bHLH-PAS superfamilies, respectively. AhR is involved in xenobiotic metabolism and in mediating the toxic effects of dioxin-like compounds. Crosstalk has been observed among AhR and nuclear receptors, but has been most well studied with respect to ER signaling. Activated AhR inhibits ER activity through a number of different mechanisms, whereas ERalpha has been reported to have a positive role in AhR signaling. Here we will discuss recent data revealing that dioxin bound AhR recruits ERalpha to AhR regulated genes. We will also consider the implications of ER recruitment to AhR target genes on ER and AhR signaling.","70":"The interaction of ERalpha and ERbeta with ERE constitutes the initial step in the canonical nuclear E2 signaling in which E2-ERbeta is a weaker transactivator than E2-ERalpha. This perspective summarizes recent findings to discuss potential mechanisms that contribute to ER subtype-specific transcriptional responses.","71":"We have systematically isolated a variety of coactivator complexes from HeLa S3 cells using proteomic approaches. In the present report, we have evaluated twelve coactivator complexes involved in nuclear receptor-dependent gene transcription that have been purified by using an immunoprecipitation method. The twelve purified coactivator complexes are SRC-1, SRC-2, SRC-3, CBP, p300, CAPER, E6-AP, ASC-1, CoREST, CRSP3, CRSP2, and CDK7 containing complexes. We have identified 153 protein components associated with these coactivator complexes using mass spectrometry. In order to systematically characterize the functional roles for these components in nuclear receptor-dependent gene transcription and their investigative potential, we have developed a scoring system. This scoring system is comprised of biological and experimental parameters. The biological evaluation considers aspects such as intrinsic enzymatic activity of a protein component, cellular signaling processes in which protein components may be involved, associations with human disease, specific protein motifs, and the known biological roles of other interacting partners of the identified protein. In the experimental evaluation, we include parameters, such as the availability of research materials for the functional study of the identified protein component; such as full-length cDNA clones, antibodies, and commercially available knock-out embryonic stem (ES) cells. Each scoring parameter has been assigned an arbitrary number of points according to perceived relative importance. On the basis of this scoring system, we prioritized each of the protein components in terms of the likelihood of their importance for coactivator complex networking in nuclear receptor-dependent gene transcription.","72":"Estrogen exerts complex biological effects through the two isoforms of estrogen receptors (ERs): ERalpha and ERbeta. Whether through alteration of gene expression or rapid, plasma membrane-localized signaling to non-transcriptional actions, estrogen-activated ERs have significant implications in cardiovascular physiology. 17-beta-estradiol (E2) generally has a protective property on the vasculature. Estrogen treatment is anti-atherogenic, protecting injured endothelial surfaces and lowering LDL oxidation in animal models. Increased NO production stimulated by E2 results in vasodilation of the coronary vascular bed, and involves rapid activation of phosphotidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K)\/Akt signaling to eNOS in carotid and femoral arteries. Both isoforms of ERs impact various vascular functions, modulating ion channel integrity, mitigating the response to arterial injury, inducing vasodilation, and preventing development of hypertension in animal models. In addition to reducing afterload by vasodilation, ERs have a direct antihypertrophic effect on the myocardium. E2-activated ERs (E2\/ER) antagonize the hypertrophic pathway induced by vasoactive peptides such as angiotensin II by activating PI3K, subsequent MICIP gene expression, leading to the inhibition of calcineurin activity and the induction of hypertrophic genes. In models of ischemia-reperfusion, E2\/ER is antiapoptotic for cardiomyocytes, exerting the protective actions via PI3K and p38 MAP kinases and suppressing the generation of reactive oxygen species. In sum, E2-activated ERs consistently and positively modulate multiple aspects of the cardiovascular system.","73":"In the nine years since the unexpected discovery of a second form of the estrogen receptor (ER), ERbeta has been mentioned in about 2,800 literature citations. Such prolific research is testimony to interest in explaining its role in estrogen physiology as well as investigating its potential as a drug target. Our current understanding is that ERalpha, not ERbeta is responsible for mediating the effects of estrogens in \"classic\" model systems such as the reproductive tract and skeleton. The role of ERbeta is still being defined, but profiling of ERbeta selective agonists in several animal models of human disease indicates these compounds may have utility as novel anti-inflammatory agents. The challenge for the future is to elucidate their mechanism of action and determine the clinical relevance of the impressive preclinical observations.","74":"Bone development is extremely sensitive to alterations in thyroid status. Recently, we analyzed the skeletal phenotypes of mice with the dominant negative resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH) mutation PV targeted to either the thyroid hormone receptor (TR) alpha1 or beta gene. This perspective summarizes our findings to date and explores the wider implications for thyroid status and T3 target gene expression in individual tissues.","75":"The mode of action of nuclear receptors in living cells is an actively investigated field but much remains hypothetical due to the lack, until recently, of methods allowing the assessment of molecular mechanisms in vivo. However, these last years, the development of fluorescence microscopy methods has allowed initiating the dissection of the molecular mechanisms underlying gene regulation by nuclear receptors directly in living cells or organisms. Following our analyses on peroxisome proliferator activated receptors (PPARs) in living cells, we discuss here the different models arising from the use of these tools, that attempt to link mobility, DNA binding or chromatin interaction, and transcriptional activity.","76":"Nuclear hormone receptors (NRs) function as ligand dependent DNA binding proteins that translate physiological\/nutritional signals into gene regulation. Dysfunctional NR signaling leads to many disorders in reproduction, inflammation, and metabolism. The opportunity to identify novel regulatory pathways in the context of human health and disease drives the challenge to unravel the biological function of the \"orphan nuclear hormone receptors\". For example, the Rev-erb (NR1D) subgroup (Rev-erbalpha\/NR1D1 and Rev-erbbeta\/NR1D2) of orphan NRs are transcriptional silencers and negative regulators of RORalpha mediated trans-activation. The NR1D subgroup is highly enriched in peripheral tissues with onerous energy demands including skeletal muscle, brown and white adipose, brain, liver and kidney. This alludes to the involvement of this subgroup in metabolism. In this context, Rev-erbalpha-\/- mice have a dyslipidemic phenotype. Recent studies in vascular smooth and skeletal muscle cells also suggest that the NR1D subgroup modulates inflammation by regulating IkappaBalpha\/NFkappaB dependent gene expression. Rev-erbalpha has been identified as a critical regulator (and target) of circadian rhythm, a factor in blood pressure control and inflammation. Finally, two recent reports have demonstrated: (i) lithium mediated regulation of Rev-erbalpha stability and (ii) E75 (the Drosophila orthologue of human Rev-erbalpha) is tightly bound by heme, and functions as a \"gas sensor\" through interaction with CO\/NO and interferes with the repression of DHR3 (the Drosophila orthologue of human RORalpha). In conclusion, the role of these receptors at the cross-roads of metabolism, inflammation, and circadian cycling underscores the importance of understanding the organ-specific function of the NR1D subgroup in homeostasis.","77":"Nuclear receptors (NRs) are transcription factors whose activity is modulated by ligand binding. These receptors are at the core of complex signaling pathways and act as integrators of many cellular signals. In the last decade our understanding of NRs has greatly evolved. In particular, regulation of NR subcellular dynamics has emerged as central to their activity. Research on the subcellular distribution of the thyroid hormone receptor (TR) has revealed new dimensions in the complexity of NR regulation, and points to the possibility that NR mislocalization plays a key role in oncogenesis. For many years, TR was thought to reside exclusively in the nucleus. It is now known that TR is a dynamic protein that shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm. TR is localized to the nucleus in a phosphorylated form, suggesting that compartment-specific phosphorylation mediates cross-talk between multiple cell signaling pathways. The oncoprotein v-ErbA, a viral-derived dominant negative variant of TR is actively exported to the cytoplasm by the CRM1 export receptor. Strikingly, the oncoprotein causes mislocalization of cellular TR and some of its coactivators by direct interaction. Here, we offer some perspectives on the role of subcellular trafficking in the oncogenic conversion of TR, and propose a new model for oncoprotein dominant negative activity.","78":"An understanding of posttranslational events in nuclear receptor signaling is crucial for drug design and clinical therapeutic strategies. Phosphorylation is a well-characterized posttranslational modification that regulates subcellular localization and function of nuclear receptors and coregulators. Although the role of single phosphorylation sites in nuclear receptor function has been described, the contribution of combinations of multiple phosphorylation sites to receptor function remains unclear. The development of phosphoantibodies to each phosphorylation site in a nuclear receptor is a powerful tool to address the role of phosphorylation in multiply phosphorylated receptors. However, phosphoantibodies must be rigorously validated prior to use. This review describes the general methodology for design, characterization and validation of phosphoantibodies using the example of eight phosphoantibodies raised against phosphorylation sites in estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha).","79":"Inherited mutations of the BRCA1 gene (chromosome 17q21), a tumor suppressor, lead to an increased risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and several other hormone-responsive tumor types. Over the last ten years, BRCA1 has been found to play major roles in DNA damage signaling, repair, and cell cycle checkpoints. In addition, unfolding evidence suggests that BRCA1 functions as a co-regulator for steroid hormone receptors and modulates steroid hormone action. In this paper, we will briefly review this evidence and present a model to address the role of the progesterone and estrogen receptors in BRCA1 mutant mammary carcinogenesis. Finally, we will consider some of the clinical implications of this model.","80":"Deposition of the beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide is thought to underlie development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This pathological linkage has spurred considerable interest in therapeutic strategies to reduce Abeta production. It is becoming increasingly clear that altered cholesterol homeostasis can modulate Abeta production and\/or accumulation. In this review, we discuss the molecular pathology of AD, the cholesterol connection and recent data suggesting that the oxysterol receptor, liver X receptor LXR (NR1H2 and NR1H3), may modulate these events.","81":"A major goal of the Nuclear Receptor Signaling Atlas (NURSA) is to elucidate the biochemical and physiological roles of nuclear receptors in vivo. Characterizing the tissue expression pattern of individual receptors and their target genes in whole animals under various pharmacological conditions and genotypes is an essential component of this aim. Here we describe a high-throughput quantitative, real-time, reverse-transcription PCR (QPCR) method for the measurement of both the relative level of expression of a particular transcript in a given tissue or cell type, and the relative change in expression of a particular transcript after pharmacologic or genotypic manipulation. This method is provided as a standardized protocol for those in the nuclear receptor field. It is meant to be a simplified, easy to use protocol for the rapid, high-throughput measurement of transcript levels in a large number of samples. A subsequent report will provide validated primer and probe sequence information for the entire mouse and human nuclear receptor superfamily.","82":"Atherosclerosis is a chronic disease of the arteries whose development involves a local inflammatory response characterized by the activation of different cells such as macrophages, T-lymphocytes, smooth muscle cells (SMCs) and endothelial cells (ECs). This review will summarize recent evidence for a modulatory role of the nuclear receptor ROR-alpha in cardiovascular disease.","83":"A series of data has accumulated over the past five years that raises questions about our current understanding of the transcriptional process and its regulation. Following the discovery of coactivators for nuclear receptors (NRs), a large number of these molecules have been reported in the literature. This perspective will summarize some opinions on the significance of this large number of factors.","84":"In the past several years, the concept of tissue-selective nuclear receptor ligands has emerged. This concept has come to fruition with estrogens, with the successful marketing of drugs such as raloxifene. The discovery of raloxifene and other selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) has raised the possibility of generating selective compounds for other pathways, including androgens (that is, selective androgen receptor modulators, or SARMs).","85":"Until just a few years ago, RNA interference (RNAi) technology was restricted to the research fields of plants, C. elegans or Drosophila. The discovery of gene silencing by in vitro synthesized double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) in mammalian cells has made the use of RNAi possible in nearly the entire life science kingdom. DNA vectors delivering small interfering RNA (siRNA) directed by polymerase III or polymerase II promoters to persistently inhibit target genes expression have extended this technology to study in vivo function of these genes. Recently, RNAi has been used as a powerful tool in the functional analysis of nuclear receptors and their coregulators. This short review will cover studies in this area.","86":"Nuclear receptors comprise a superfamily of sequence-specific transcription factors whose members have diverse roles during development. This review will summarize the developmental roles of selected members of the nuclear receptor superfamily.","87":"The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) is a prototypical metabolic nuclear receptor that acts as a lipid sensor, integrating the homeostatic control of energy, lipid, and glucose metabolism. This perspective will highlight three lines of evidence which place PPAR-gamma as a key player in a feed-forward pathway favoring differentiation and energy storage by adipocytes.","88":"The long term goal of the Nuclear Receptor Signaling Atlas (NURSA) resides in unraveling the physiological and pathological functions of nuclear receptors (NRs) at the molecular, biochemical and cellular levels. This multi-oriented task requires complementary approaches in order to determine the specific function(s) and precise expression and receptor activity patterns for each individual conventional or orphan receptor. To attain this objective, we have chose to turn to technologies recently made available to engineer bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs).","89":"Nuclear receptors are DNA-binding transcription factors, the transcriptional function of many of which depends on the binding of ligands, a feature that distinguishes nuclear receptors from other transcription factors. This review will summarize recent advances in our knowledge of the interaction between selected nuclear receptors and their cognate ligands.","90":"Estrogen receptors are hormone-inducible transcription factors requiring coactivators such as members of the SRC\/p160 family to modulate the transcription of their target genes. This perspective will examine the interplay between estrogen receptors and their coactivators in vasoprotection during vascular wall remodeling.","91":"The ability of NR LBDs to transfer repression function to a heterologous DNA binding domain, and the cross-squelching of repression by untethered LBDs, has suggested that repression is mediated by interactions with putative cellular corepressor proteins. The yeast-two hybrid screen for protein interactors has proven to be the key to the isolation and characterization of corepressors. This short review will focus on N-CoR and SMRT.","92":"The effects of estrogen are mediated through two functionally distinct receptors, estrogen receptor alpha (ER- alpha ), and estrogen receptor beta (ER- beta ), both of which are expressed in the cardiovascular system. The etiology of cardiovascular disease is believed to result in part from the loss of endogenous estrogen, indicating that estrogen and its receptors may play important roles in the prevention of cardiovascular disease in women.","93":"Glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and related steroid hormone receptors are ligand-dependent transcription factors whose regulation is critical for both homeostasis and diseases. The structural maturation of the GR has been shown to require the Hsp90 molecular chaperone complex. Evidence indicates that Hsp90-dependent maturation is critical for GR ligand binding capacity and activity. While the role for Hsp90 in GR function is well established, the regulation of this process is not well understood. Here we discuss a recent finding that identifies reversible protein acetylation controlled by the deacetylase HDAC6 as a novel mechanism that regulates Hsp90-dependent GR maturation. We will also speculate on the implications of this finding in steroid hormone signaling, oncogenic transformation and its potential therapeutic utility.","94":"A diverse cadre of metazoan transcription factors mediate repression by recruiting protein complexes containing the SMRT (silencing mediator of retinoid and thyroid hormone receptor) or N-CoR (nuclear receptor corepressor) corepressors. SMRT and N-CoR nucleate the assembly of still larger corepressor complexes that perform the specific molecular incantations necessary to confer transcriptional repression. Although SMRT and N-CoR are paralogs and possess similar molecular architectures and mechanistic strategies, they nonetheless exhibit distinct molecular and biological properties. It is now clear that the functions of both SMRT and N-CoR are further diversified through alternative mRNA splicing, yielding a series of corepressor protein variants that participate in distinctive transcription factor partnerships and display distinguishable repression properties. This review will discuss what is known about the structure and actions of SMRT, N-CoR, and their splicing variants, and how alternative splicing may allow the functions of these corepressors to be adapted and tailored to different cells and to different developmental stages.","95":"Illicit use of performance-enhancing steroids has proliferated among a wide range of professional and amateur athletes. This problem has attracted broad public attention and has led the United States Congress to draft legislation that proposes frequent testing of athletes. However, current testing protocols are inadequate as athletes can evade detection by using novel steroids that are unknown to authorities. We have developed a strategy that overcomes this limitation by virtue of its ability to detect \"designer steroids\" without prior knowledge of their existence.","96":"The full-length human androgen receptor with an N-terminal biotin acceptor peptide tag was overexpressed in Spodoptera frugiperda cells in the presence of 1 microM dihydrotestosterone. Site-specific biotinylation of BAP was achieved in vivo by co-expression of E. coli biotin holoenzyme synthetase. The androgen receptor was purified by single-step affinity chromatography using Streptavidin Mutein Matrix under native conditions. The resultant protein was active, stable, 95% homogeneous, and we obtained sufficient yield for use in functional and structural studies.","97":"The estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) regulates the transcription of target genes by recruiting coregulator proteins through several domains including the two activation functions AF1 and AF2. The contribution of the N-terminally located AF1 activity is particularly important in differentiated cells, and for ERalpha to integrate inputs from other signaling pathways. However, how the phosphorylation of key residues influences AF1 activity has long remained mysterious, in part because the naturally disordered AF1 domain has resisted a structural characterization. The recent discovery of two coregulators that are specific for a phosphorylated form of AF1 suggests that phosphorylation, possibly in conjunction with the subsequent binding of these coregulators, may enforce a stable structure. The binding of the \"pioneer\" coregulators might facilitate the subsequent recruitment of yet other coregulators. Different AF1 folds may be enabled by the combinatorial action of posttranslational modifications and coregulator binding thereby fine-tuning ERalpha activities in a cell- and promoter-specific fashion.","98":"In this perspective we consider new aspects of ligand-induced estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) degradation. What are the possible roles of CSN5\/Jab1 and the CSN complex in this process? We compare hormone (estrogen) or pure antagonist (fulvestrant) induced degradation of ERalpha and review the effects of kinase-inhibitors and CRM1-dependent nuclear export on ERalpha degradation and transcription activation. A model for ERalpha action integrating these new actors is proposed and the relation between hormone-induced ERalpha degradation and transcription-activation is discussed.","99":"The nuclear receptor corepressors NCoR and SMRT repress gene transcription by recruiting a histone deacetylase complex. Their roles in PPARgamma action have been controversial. Recent evidence, however, suggests that NCoR and SMRT repress PPARgamma-mediated transcriptional activity on specific promoters in the adipocyte. In addition, by repressing PPARgamma action, these corepressors inhibit the ability of adipocyte differentiation to proceed. A further understanding of corepressor action in the adipocyte will provide insight into the balance of forces regulating adipogenesis, insulin sensitivity, and Type 2 diabetes mellitus.","100":"The nuclear hormone receptor (NR) superfamily includes the orphan NR4A subgroup, comprised of Nur77 (NR4A1), Nurr1 (NR4A2) and NOR-1 (NR4A3). These NRs are classified as early response genes, are induced by a diverse range of signals, including fatty acids, stress, growth factors, cytokines, peptide hormones, phorbol esters, neurotransmitters, and physical stimuli (for example magnetic fields, shear stress). The ability to sense and rapidly respond to changes in the cellular environment thus appears to be a hallmark of this subfamily. The members of the NR4A subgroup are well conserved in the DNA binding domain (approximately 91-95%) and the C-terminal ligand-binding domain (approximately 60%), but are divergent in the N-terminal AB region. These receptors bind as monomers, homodimers and heterodimers with RXRs (to mediate retinoid signaling) to different permutations of the canonical NR binding motif. The NR4A subgroup activates gene expression in a constitutive ligand-independent manner. NR4A-mediated trans-activation (LBD) involves unusually active N-terminal AF-1 domains that mediate coactivator recruitment. Moreover, the NR4A receptors encode atypical LBDs and AF-2 domains. For example, the LBDs contain no cavity due to bulky hydrophobic residue side chains, and lack the classical coactivator-binding cleft constituted by helices 3, 4 and 12. However, a hydrophobic patch exists between helices 11 and 12, that encodes a novel cofactor interface that modulates transcriptional activity. In line with the pleiotropic physiological stimuli that induce the NR4A subgroup, these orphan NRs have been implicated in cell cycle regulation (and apoptosis), neurological disease, steroidogenesis, inflammation, carcinogenesis and atherogenesis.","101":"In this perspective we describe examples of crosstalk between nuclear receptors (NRs) and Notch signaling by means of direct functional interactions between components of both pathways. This crosstalk may provide eukaryotic organisms with molecular mechanisms for the coordination of llong-distance endocrine signals with cell-to-cell juxtacrine communication."},"articletitle":{"0":"GR Utilizes a Co-Chaperone Cytoplasmic CAR Retention Protein to Form an N\/C Interaction.","1":"C2H2-Type Zinc Finger Proteins: Evolutionarily Old and New Partners of the Nuclear Hormone Receptors.","2":null,"3":null,"4":"Regulation of steroid hormone receptors and coregulators during the cell cycle highlights potential novel function in addition to roles as transcription factors.","5":"Identification of potential glucocorticoid receptor therapeutic targets in multiple myeloma.","6":"Molecular targets of androgen signaling that characterize skeletal muscle recovery and regeneration.","7":null,"8":"Transmembrane helices in \"classical\" nuclear reproductive steroid receptors: a perspective.","9":"Identification of chemical modulators of the constitutive activated receptor (CAR) in a gene expression compendium.","10":null,"11":"Nuclear Receptor Signaling: a home for nuclear receptor and coregulator signaling research.","12":"Control of steroid receptor dynamics and function by genomic actions of the cochaperones p23 and Bag-1L.","13":null,"14":null,"15":"Distinct, genome-wide, gene-specific selectivity patterns of four glucocorticoid receptor coregulators.","16":null,"17":"Androgen receptor (AR) pathophysiological roles in androgen-related diseases in skin, bone\/muscle, metabolic syndrome and neuron\/immune systems: lessons learned from mice lacking AR in specific cells.","18":"EMBO Retinoids 2011: Mechanisms, biology and pathology of signaling by retinoic acid and retinoic acid receptors.","19":"Use of differential scanning fluorimetry as a high-throughput assay to identify nuclear receptor ligands.","20":"Post-translational modifications of nuclear receptors and human disease.","21":"Mutual information identifies sequence positions conserved within the nuclear receptor superfamily: approach reveals functionally important regions for DNA binding specificity.","22":"PPARgamma1 and LXRalpha face a new regulator of macrophage cholesterol homeostasis and inflammatory responsiveness, AEBP1.","23":"DamIP: a novel method to identify DNA binding sites in vivo.","24":"PPARalpha: energy combustion, hypolipidemia, inflammation and cancer.","25":"Nuclear receptor Rev-erbalpha: a heme receptor that coordinates circadian rhythm and metabolism.","26":"Control of oocyte release by progesterone receptor-regulated gene expression.","27":"Nuclear hormone receptor architecture - form and dynamics: The 2009 FASEB Summer Conference on Dynamic Structure of the Nuclear Hormone Receptors.","28":"Hairless is a nuclear receptor corepressor essential for skin function.","29":"Progesterone action in human tissues: regulation by progesterone receptor (PR) isoform expression, nuclear positioning and coregulator expression.","30":"Erk signaling and chromatin remodeling in MMTV promoter activation by progestins.","31":"Deciphering the nuclear bile acid receptor FXR paradigm.","32":"Naturally occurring C-terminal splice variants of nuclear receptors.","33":"Developmental expression of retinoic acid receptors (RARs).","34":"Dynamic and combinatorial control of gene expression by nuclear retinoic acid receptors (RARs).","35":"A novel approach to investigate the subcellular distribution of nuclear receptors in vivo.","36":"Retinoid-related orphan receptors (RORs): critical roles in development, immunity, circadian rhythm, and cellular metabolism.","37":"Function of retinoic acid receptors during embryonic development.","38":"The steroid and xenobiotic receptor (SXR), beyond xenobiotic metabolism.","39":"Selective androgen receptor modulators in preclinical and clinical development.","40":"Atrophin proteins: an overview of a new class of nuclear receptor corepressors.","41":"Diverse roles of androgen receptor (AR) domains in AR-mediated signaling.","42":"E6-associated protein (E6-AP) is a dual function coactivator of steroid hormone receptors.","43":"Regulatory function of the P295-T311 motif of the estrogen receptor alpha - does proteasomal degradation of the receptor induce emergence of peptides implicated in estrogenic responses?","44":"A global view of transcriptional regulation by nuclear receptors: gene expression, factor localization, and DNA sequence analysis.","45":"The BRG1 transcriptional coregulator.","46":"Estrogen receptor beta: an overview and update.","47":"Nuclear receptor coactivator\/coregulator NCoA6(NRC) is a pleiotropic coregulator involved in transcription, cell survival, growth and development.","48":"AR, the cell cycle, and prostate cancer.","49":"The mineralocorticoid receptor: insights into its molecular and (patho)physiological biology.","50":"Steroid receptor coactivator 2 is required for female fertility and mammary morphogenesis: insights from the mouse, relevance to the human.","51":"MTA family of coregulators in nuclear receptor biology and pathology.","52":"The NR3B subgroup: an ovERRview.","53":"The coregulator Alien.","54":"Evaluation of steroid hormone receptor protein expression in intact cells using flow cytometry.","55":"Steroid receptor RNA activator (SRA1): unusual bifaceted gene products with suspected relevance to breast cancer.","56":"Kinases and protein phosphorylation as regulators of steroid hormone action.","57":"Functional and biological properties of the nuclear receptor coregulator PELP1\/MNAR.","58":"Visualizing the action of steroid hormone receptors in living cells.","59":"Natural disordered sequences in the amino terminal domain of nuclear receptors: lessons from the androgen and glucocorticoid receptors.","60":"An improved high throughput protein-protein interaction assay for nuclear hormone receptors.","61":"The nuclear receptor transcriptional coregulator RIP140.","62":"A critique of Women's Health Initiative Studies (2002-2006).","63":"Corepressor\/coactivator paradox: potential constitutive coactivation by corepressor splice variants.","64":"Measuring ligand-dependent and ligand-independent interactions between nuclear receptors and associated proteins using Bioluminescence Resonance Energy Transfer (BRET).","65":"Thyroid hormone mediated changes in gene expression can be initiated by cytosolic action of the thyroid hormone receptor beta through the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway.","66":"Hic-5, an adaptor-like nuclear receptor coactivator.","67":"Genome-wide approaches for identification of nuclear receptor target genes.","68":"Zimp7 and Zimp10, two novel PIAS-like proteins, function as androgen receptor coregulators.","69":"Estrogen receptor and aryl hydrocarbon receptor signaling pathways.","70":"A tale of two estrogen receptors (ERs): how differential ER-estrogen responsive element interactions contribute to subtype-specific transcriptional responses.","71":"A scoring system for the follow up study of nuclear receptor coactivator complexes.","72":"Estrogen signaling in the cardiovascular system.","73":"The unexpected science of estrogen receptor-beta selective agonists: a new class of anti-inflammatory agents?","74":"Characterization of skeletal phenotypes of TRalpha1 and TRbeta mutant mice: implications for tissue thyroid status and T3 target gene expression.","75":"Integrating nuclear receptor mobility in models of gene regulation.","76":"The orphan Rev-erb nuclear receptors: a link between metabolism, circadian rhythm and inflammation?","77":"Oncogenic conversion of the thyroid hormone receptor by altered nuclear transport.","78":"Application of phosphorylation site-specific antibodies to measure nuclear receptor signaling: characterization of novel phosphoantibodies for estrogen receptor alpha.","79":"Regulation of progesterone receptor signaling by BRCA1 in mammary cancer.","80":"Linking lipids, Alzheimer's and LXRs?","81":"Quantitative real-time PCR protocol for analysis of nuclear receptor signaling pathways.","82":"Potential roles of ROR-alpha in cardiovascular endocrinology.","83":"Sequentiality and processivity of nuclear receptor coregulators in regulation of target gene expression.","84":"Therapeutic androgen receptor ligands.","85":"RNAi technology and its use in studying the function of nuclear receptors and coregulators.","86":"The varied roles of nuclear receptors during vertebrate embryonic development.","87":"PPAR-gamma: a thrifty transcription factor.","88":"Expression and function profiling of orphan nuclear receptors using bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenesis.","89":"Structural insights into regulation of nuclear receptors by ligands.","90":"The role of SRC-3 in estrogen-dependent vasoprotection during vascular wall remodeling postinjury.","91":"Nuclear receptor corepressors.","92":"Cardiovascular roles of estrogen receptors: insights gained from knockout models.","93":"Chaperoning steroid hormone signaling via reversible acetylation.","94":"Corepressors: custom tailoring and alterations while you wait.","95":"Detection of designer steroids.","96":"Single-step purification of full-length human androgen receptor.","97":"The cell-specific activity of the estrogen receptor alpha may be fine-tuned by phosphorylation-induced structural gymnastics.","98":"Ligand-induced estrogen receptor alpha degradation by the proteasome: new actors?","99":"Nuclear receptor corepressors and PPARgamma.","100":"The NR4A subgroup: immediate early response genes with pleiotropic physiological roles.","101":"Nuclear receptor regulation gears up another Notch."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":"","84":"","85":"","86":"","87":"","88":"","89":"","90":"","91":"","92":"","93":"","94":"","95":"","96":"","97":"","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Nuclear receptor signaling","1":"Nuclear receptor signaling","2":"Nuclear receptor signaling","3":"Nuclear receptor signaling","4":"Nuclear receptor signaling","5":"Nuclear receptor signaling","6":"Nuclear receptor signaling","7":"Nuclear receptor signaling","8":"Nuclear receptor signaling","9":"Nuclear receptor signaling","10":"Nuclear receptor signaling","11":"Nuclear receptor signaling","12":"Nuclear receptor signaling","13":"Nuclear receptor signaling","14":"Nuclear receptor signaling","15":"Nuclear receptor signaling","16":"Nuclear receptor signaling","17":"Nuclear receptor signaling","18":"Nuclear receptor signaling","19":"Nuclear receptor signaling","20":"Nuclear receptor signaling","21":"Nuclear receptor signaling","22":"Nuclear receptor signaling","23":"Nuclear receptor signaling","24":"Nuclear receptor signaling","25":"Nuclear receptor signaling","26":"Nuclear receptor signaling","27":"Nuclear receptor signaling","28":"Nuclear receptor signaling","29":"Nuclear receptor signaling","30":"Nuclear receptor signaling","31":"Nuclear receptor signaling","32":"Nuclear receptor signaling","33":"Nuclear receptor signaling","34":"Nuclear receptor signaling","35":"Nuclear receptor signaling","36":"Nuclear receptor signaling","37":"Nuclear receptor signaling","38":"Nuclear receptor signaling","39":"Nuclear receptor signaling","40":"Nuclear receptor signaling","41":"Nuclear receptor signaling","42":"Nuclear receptor signaling","43":"Nuclear receptor signaling","44":"Nuclear receptor signaling","45":"Nuclear receptor signaling","46":"Nuclear receptor signaling","47":"Nuclear receptor signaling","48":"Nuclear receptor signaling","49":"Nuclear receptor signaling","50":"Nuclear receptor signaling","51":"Nuclear receptor signaling","52":"Nuclear receptor signaling","53":"Nuclear receptor signaling","54":"Nuclear receptor signaling","55":"Nuclear receptor signaling","56":"Nuclear receptor signaling","57":"Nuclear receptor signaling","58":"Nuclear receptor signaling","59":"Nuclear receptor signaling","60":"Nuclear receptor signaling","61":"Nuclear receptor signaling","62":"Nuclear receptor signaling","63":"Nuclear receptor signaling","64":"Nuclear receptor signaling","65":"Nuclear receptor signaling","66":"Nuclear receptor signaling","67":"Nuclear receptor signaling","68":"Nuclear receptor signaling","69":"Nuclear receptor signaling","70":"Nuclear receptor signaling","71":"Nuclear receptor signaling","72":"Nuclear receptor signaling","73":"Nuclear receptor signaling","74":"Nuclear receptor signaling","75":"Nuclear receptor signaling","76":"Nuclear receptor signaling","77":"Nuclear receptor signaling","78":"Nuclear receptor signaling","79":"Nuclear receptor signaling","80":"Nuclear receptor signaling","81":"Nuclear receptor signaling","82":"Nuclear receptor signaling","83":"Nuclear receptor signaling","84":"Nuclear receptor signaling","85":"Nuclear receptor signaling","86":"Nuclear receptor signaling","87":"Nuclear receptor signaling","88":"Nuclear receptor signaling","89":"Nuclear receptor signaling","90":"Nuclear receptor signaling","91":"Nuclear receptor signaling","92":"Nuclear receptor signaling","93":"Nuclear receptor signaling","94":"Nuclear receptor signaling","95":"Nuclear receptor signaling","96":"Nuclear receptor signaling","97":"Nuclear receptor signaling","98":"Nuclear receptor signaling","99":"Nuclear receptor signaling","100":"Nuclear receptor signaling","101":"Nuclear receptor signaling"},"keyword":{"0":"CCRPGRN\/C interaction","1":null,"2":"FXRLXRSHPlipid metabolismprostate cancer","3":null,"4":"cell cyclekinasesmitosisphosphorylationsteroid hormone receptorstranscription-independent action","5":"BCL2L1ChIP-SeqRRM2glucocorticoid receptormultiple myeloma","6":"AndrogenLevator AniRegenerationSatellite CellsSkeletal Muscle","7":"3T3-L1X-ray structuregene expressionnon-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugspartial agonistperoxisome proliferator activated receptors","8":"channelscytosol receptorsmembrane receptorssteroidstransmembrane helix","9":"aryl hydrocarbon receptorconazolesconstitutive activated receptorliver cancermetabolic syndromeperfluorinated compoundsperoxisome proliferator-activated receptorpregnane X receptorsteatosistranscript profiling","10":null,"11":"","12":"cellular transportchaperonesnuclear receptorssteroid receptors","13":"Breast cancerIGF-1nuclear receptoroncogeneretinoid","14":"Screeningchemical librariesdrugsgene expressiongene regulationnuclear receptors","15":"coregulatorsgene expressiongene regulationglucocorticoid receptormicroarray","16":null,"17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":"","84":"","85":"","86":"","87":"","88":"","89":"","90":"","91":"","92":"","93":"","94":"","95":"","96":"","97":"","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":""},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng","6":"eng","7":"eng","8":"eng","9":"eng","10":"eng","11":"eng","12":"eng","13":"eng","14":"eng","15":"eng","16":"eng","17":"eng","18":"eng","19":"eng","20":"eng","21":"eng","22":"eng","23":"eng","24":"eng","25":"eng","26":"eng","27":"eng","28":"eng","29":"eng","30":"eng","31":"eng","32":"eng","33":"eng","34":"eng","35":"eng","36":"eng","37":"eng","38":"eng","39":"eng","40":"eng","41":"eng","42":"eng","43":"eng","44":"eng","45":"eng","46":"eng","47":"eng","48":"eng","49":"eng","50":"eng","51":"eng","52":"eng","53":"eng","54":"eng","55":"eng","56":"eng","57":"eng","58":"eng","59":"eng","60":"eng","61":"eng","62":"eng","63":"eng","64":"eng","65":"eng","66":"eng","67":"eng","68":"eng","69":"eng","70":"eng","71":"eng","72":"eng","73":"eng","74":"eng","75":"eng","76":"eng","77":"eng","78":"eng","79":"eng","80":"eng","81":"eng","82":"eng","83":"eng","84":"eng","85":"eng","86":"eng","87":"eng","88":"eng","89":"eng","90":"eng","91":"eng","92":"eng","93":"eng","94":"eng","95":"eng","96":"eng","97":"eng","98":"eng","99":"eng","100":"eng","101":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":30718983,"1":30718982,"2":30718981,"3":27507929,"4":26778927,"5":26715915,"6":26457071,"7":26445566,"8":26430393,"9":25949234,"10":25945080,"11":25614732,"12":25422595,"13":25422594,"14":25422593,"15":25422592,"16":25363786,"17":24653668,"18":22438793,"19":22438792,"20":22438791,"21":21383938,"22":20419060,"23":20419059,"24":20414453,"25":20414452,"26":20087433,"27":20087432,"28":20087431,"29":20087430,"30":20087429,"31":21383957,"32":19636396,"33":19471585,"34":19471584,"35":19471583,"36":19381306,"37":19381305,"38":19240808,"39":19079612,"40":19043594,"41":18612376,"42":18432313,"43":18432312,"44":18301785,"45":18301784,"46":18301783,"47":18301782,"48":18301781,"49":18174920,"50":18174919,"51":18174918,"52":18174917,"53":18174916,"54":17710123,"55":17710122,"56":17525795,"57":17525794,"58":17464358,"59":17464357,"60":17464356,"61":17088940,"62":17088939,"63":17088938,"64":17016546,"65":16862226,"66":16862225,"67":16862224,"68":16862223,"69":16862222,"70":16862221,"71":16862220,"72":16862219,"73":16862218,"74":16862217,"75":16741568,"76":16741567,"77":16741566,"78":16741565,"79":16741564,"80":16604185,"81":16604184,"82":16604183,"83":16604182,"84":16604181,"85":16604180,"86":16604179,"87":16604178,"88":16604177,"89":16604176,"90":16604175,"91":16604174,"92":16604173,"93":16604172,"94":16604171,"95":16604170,"96":16604169,"97":16604168,"98":16604167,"99":16604166,"100":16604165,"101":16604164},"pubdate_year":{"0":2018,"1":2018,"2":2018,"3":2016,"4":2016,"5":2015,"6":2015,"7":2015,"8":2015,"9":2015,"10":2015,"11":2014,"12":2014,"13":2014,"14":2014,"15":2014,"16":2014,"17":2013,"18":2012,"19":2012,"20":2012,"21":2011,"22":2010,"23":2010,"24":2010,"25":2010,"26":2009,"27":2009,"28":2009,"29":2009,"30":2009,"31":2010,"32":2009,"33":2009,"34":2009,"35":2009,"36":2009,"37":2009,"38":2009,"39":2008,"40":2008,"41":2008,"42":2008,"43":2008,"44":2008,"45":2008,"46":2008,"47":2008,"48":2008,"49":2007,"50":2007,"51":2007,"52":2007,"53":2007,"54":2007,"55":2007,"56":2007,"57":2007,"58":2007,"59":2007,"60":2007,"61":2006,"62":2006,"63":2006,"64":2006,"65":2006,"66":2006,"67":2006,"68":2006,"69":2006,"70":2006,"71":2006,"72":2006,"73":2006,"74":2006,"75":2006,"76":2006,"77":2006,"78":2006,"79":2006,"80":2004,"81":2003,"82":2003,"83":2003,"84":2003,"85":2003,"86":2003,"87":2003,"88":2003,"89":2003,"90":2003,"91":2003,"92":2003,"93":2005,"94":2005,"95":2005,"96":2005,"97":2006,"98":2006,"99":2006,"100":2006,"101":2006}}