{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54,"55":55,"56":56,"57":57,"58":58,"59":59,"60":60,"61":61,"62":62,"63":63,"64":64,"65":65,"66":66,"67":67,"68":68,"69":69,"70":70,"71":71,"72":72,"73":73,"74":74,"75":75,"76":76,"77":77,"78":78,"79":79,"80":80,"81":81,"82":82,"83":83,"84":84,"85":85,"86":86,"87":87,"88":88,"89":89,"90":90,"91":91,"92":92,"93":93,"94":94,"95":95,"96":96,"97":97,"98":98,"99":99,"100":100,"101":101,"102":102,"103":103,"104":104,"105":105,"106":106,"107":107,"108":108,"109":109,"110":110,"111":111,"112":112,"113":113,"114":114,"115":115,"116":116,"117":117,"118":118,"119":119,"120":120,"121":121,"122":122,"123":123,"124":124,"125":125,"126":126,"127":127,"128":128,"129":129,"130":130,"131":131,"132":132,"133":133,"134":134,"135":135,"136":136,"137":137,"138":138,"139":139,"140":140,"141":141,"142":142,"143":143,"144":144,"145":145,"146":146,"147":147,"148":148,"149":149,"150":150,"151":151,"152":152,"153":153,"154":154,"155":155,"156":156,"157":157,"158":158,"159":159,"160":160,"161":161,"162":162,"163":163,"164":164,"165":165,"166":166,"167":167,"168":168,"169":169,"170":170,"171":171,"172":172,"173":173,"174":174,"175":175,"176":176,"177":177,"178":178},"abstracttext":{"0":"We examined perceived self-other differences (self-uniqueness) in appraisals of one's risk of an infectious disease (COVID-19), one's adherence to behavioural precautionary measures against the disease, and the impact of these measures on one's life. We also examined the relationship of self-uniqueness with information seeking and trust in sources of information about the disease. We administered an online survey to a community sample (N = 8696) of Dutch-speaking individuals, mainly in Belgium and The Netherlands, during the first lockdown (late April-Mid June 2020). As a group, participants reported that they were less likely to get infected or infect others or to suffer severe outcomes than average (unrealistic optimism) and that they adhered better than average to behavioural precautionary measures (illusory superiority). Except for participants below 25, who reported that they were affected more than average by these measures (egocentric impact bias), participants also generally reported that they were less affected than average (allocentric impact bias). Individual differences in self-uniqueness were associated with differences in the number of information sources being used and trust on these sources. Higher comparative optimism for infection, self-superiority, and allocentric impact perception were associated with information being sought from fewer sources; higher self-superiority and egocentric impact perception were associated with lower trust. We discuss implications for health communication.","1":"Dealing with COVID-19 and with the preventative measures that have been taken to mitigate the transmission of the virus causing the pandemic has posed a great challenge to the population. While psychologists have expertise with regard to preventive behavior change and to dealing with the mental health impact of measures, their expertise needs to be effectively communicated to the public. Mass media play a critical role in times of crisis, in many cases being the only source of information. While most research focuses on the importance of information content as a factor affecting psychological responses to a collective traumatic event, the way information is framed in the media is likely to influence the way health professionals are perceived as trustworthy. This study aimed to analyze the media framing of information from psychology during the COVID-19 pandemic in six countries from America and Europe, identifying the most recurrent topics in the news (n news items = 541) related to psychology and mental health. In all six countries the media address the psychological needs of the population, which vary depending on the imposed restrictions. The news content is influenced by the scientific sources used by the media. While the most prevalent topics focus on psychological risk and the need to seek mental health care, the least prevalent topics relate to counseling and behavioral guidelines for managing the psychological consequences of the pandemic. The study findings provide insight into how psychological knowledge contributes to the understanding and mitigation of COVID-19 consequences in different countries and identified fields where psychologists were consulted to respond to a health emergency. They also show a preference to consult other experts when searching for contextual or more macro-social explanations of critical situation.","2":"The idea that the past holds lessons for the present, under the guise of historical analogies, is prevalent in political and public discourse. Those analogies are often accompanied by dire warnings befalling those who \"forget\" or otherwise neglect the powerful lessons of History-and would then be \"doomed to repeat it\", as the saying goes. So, Would remembering history make it seem more OR LESS likely to repeat itself in the future? In other words, does exposure to specific lessons about past events, especially ones involving causal claims, affect how people expect real-life events to turn out? Four studies (three preregistered) tested this experimentally. In Studies 1 and 2, participants expected the same behavior (the US adopting a harsh stance against Iran in the Nuclear Treaty) to result in a more negative outcome when this current stance seemed to match a \"lesson\" they had read about the break-out of World War II (European leaders adopting a harsh approach against Germany in the 1919 Versailles Treaty vs. a conciliatory approach in the 1938 Munich Agreement). Studies 3 and 4 attempted to eliminate some confounds present in the first two studies and to generalize the effect to different events. While results varied across studies, an internal meta-analysis indicated that the analogical effect on predictions (d = -.08) tended to become stronger as participants' knowledge about the target situation decreased (d-1SD = -.24). These findings support the possibility of analogical-based predictive effects for real-life political events, and are discussed in light of their research and political implications.","3":"Cognitive impairments are frequent in patients with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Yet, the influence of MS-related symptoms on cognitive status is not clear. Studies investigating the impact of trait fatigue along with anxio-depressive symptoms on cognition are seldom, and even less considered fatigue as multidimensional. Moreover, these studies provided conflicting results. Twenty-nine MS patients and 28 healthy controls, matched on age, gender and education underwent a full comprehensive neuropsychological assessment. Anxio-depressive and fatigue symptoms were assessed using the HAD scale and the MFIS, respectively. Six composite scores were derived from the neuropsychological assessment, reflecting the cognitive domains of working memory, verbal and visual learning, executive functions, attention and processing speed. Stepwise regression analyses were conducted in each group to investigate if trait cognitive and physical fatigue, depression and anxiety are relevant predictors of performance in each cognitive domain. In order to control for disease progression, patient's EDSS score was also entered as predictor variable. In the MS group, trait physical fatigue was the only significant predictor of working memory score. Cognitive fatigue was a predictor for executive functioning performance and for processing speed (as well as EDSS score for processing speed). In the healthy controls group, only an association between executive functioning and depression was observed. Fatigue predicted cognition in MS patients only, beyond anxio-depressive symptoms and disease progression. Considering fatigue as a multidimensional symptom is paramount to better understand its association with cognition, as physical and cognitive fatigue are predictors of different cognitive processes.","4":"The notion of climate change anxiety has gained traction in the last years. Clayton &amp; Karazsia (2020) recently developed the 22-item Climate Change Anxiety Scale (CAS), which assesses climate change anxiety via a four-factor structure. Yet other research has cast doubts on the very structure of the CAS by calling either for a shorter (i.e. 13 items) two-factor structure or for a shorter single-factor structure (i.e. 13 items). So far, these three different models have not yet been compared in one study. Moreover, uncertainty remains regarding the associations between the CAS and other psychological constructs, especially anxiety and depression. This project was designed to overcome these limitations. In a first preregistered study (n = 305), we translated the scale into French and tested, via confirmatory factor analyses (CFA), whether the French version would better fit with a four-, two-, or single-factor structure, as implied by previous works. We also examined how the CAS factors related to depression, anxiety, and environmental identity. In a second preregistered study, we aimed at replicating our comparison between the three CFA models in a larger sample (n = 905). Both studies pointed to a 13-item version of the scale with a two-factor structure as the best fitting model, with one factor reflecting cognitive and emotional features of climate change anxiety and the other reflecting the related functional impairments. Each factor exhibited a positive association with depression and environmental identity but not with general anxiety. We discuss how this two-factor structure impacts the conceptualization of climate change anxiety.","5":"The purpose of this study was to investigate which social groups are perceived as a threat target and which are perceived as a threat source during the COVID-19 outbreak. In a German sample (N = 1454) we examined perceptions of social groups ranging from those that are psychologically close and smaller (family, friends, neighbors) to those that are more distal and larger (people living in Germany, humankind). We hypothesized that psychologically closer groups would be perceived as less affected by COVID-19 as well as less threatening than more psychologically distal groups. Based on social identity theorizing, we also hypothesized that stronger identification with humankind would change these patterns. Furthermore, we explored how these threat perceptions relate to adherence to COVID-19 health guidelines. In line with our hypotheses, latent random-slope modelling revealed that psychologically distal and larger groups were perceived as more affected by COVID-19 and as more threatening than psychologically closer and smaller groups. Including identification with humankind as a predictor into the threat target model resulted in a steeper increase in threat target perception patterns, whereas identification with humankind did not predict differences in threat source perceptions. Additionally, an increase in threat source perceptions across social groups was associated with more adherence to health guidelines, whereas an increase in threat target perceptions was not. We fully replicated these findings in a subgroup from the original sample (N = 989) four weeks later. We argue that societal recovery from this and other crises will be supported by an inclusive approach informed by a sense of our common identity as human beings.","6":"Although increasingly disputed, the white coat uniform is ubiquitous in geriatric care, which may reflect a phenomenon called medicalisation of ageing. This narrative review is the first attempt at integrating several theoretical approaches, such as the \"white coat effect\" and \"enclothed cognition\", in order to gain a comprehensive understanding of the use of this clothing item. Based on extensive empirical evidence, we will examine the consequences of wearing a uniform, not only on patients (in this case, older patients) and healthcare professionals, but also on their relationship. The white coat has powerful symbolic functions for healthcare professionals and is still preferred by older adults. However, the negative repercussions of wearing a uniform require us to question its use, particularly in environments where older persons live, such as nursing homes.","7":null,"8":"The COVID-19 pandemic has been shown to induce several psychological consequences (e.g., increases in anxiety and stress). Accordingly, it seems relevant to investigate how individuals cope with their emotions. Indeed, when facing negative emotions, individuals need to rely on adaptive emotion regulation strategies to alleviate their negative impacts (e.g., decrease in quality of life, increase in sleep disturbances). Moreover, lockdown's measures led to a restriction of the access to activities which, in turn, might have decreased the \"environmental satisfaction\". Then, this research investigates the pandemic's psychological impacts on emotions and regulation strategies, intolerance of uncertainty, and environmental satisfaction. Our approach's originality relies on comparing one's actual psychological functioning (i.e., since the pandemic) to one's general psychological functioning (i.e., before the pandemic). This study also assesses the relationships between both negative and positive emotions and (1) emotion regulation strategies, (2) intolerance of uncertainty and, (3) environmental satisfaction since the pandemic and its lockdown. The total sample comprised 948 adults from the general population. Results show that, since the pandemic, individuals experience higher levels of negative emotions, lower levels of positive emotions and environmental satisfaction. They also tend to worry less and to resort to acceptance more often. Also, environmental satisfaction is the most important predictor of both negative emotions and positive ones. Overall, findings confirm previous ones and seem to indicate that environmental satisfaction should be addressed more thoroughly.","9":"Client agency is considered a crucial contributor to good treatment outcome. Recent studies, however, differ strongly in how they conceptualise and investigate agency. The current study explores the nature of client agency in ten clients' pre-treatment interviews. Applying Consensual Qualitative Research, we constructed three overarching categories, subdivided into 14 sub-categories capturing both between- and within-person differences in agency before therapy. We found that all participants oscillated between the experience of a lack of grip on problems on the one hand and noticing their involvement in the problem and taking action on the other. These results present a dynamic conceptualisation of client agency. This allows us to ask pertinent questions for both future research and clinical practice.","10":"How did couples in Belgium cope during the early phases of the COVID-19 pandemic? In this study, grounded in relationship science, we investigated in a descriptive manner several factors that could affect how couples perceived individual and relational wellbeing during this time. Specifically, we examined the associations between gender, sexual orientation, parental status, and relationship duration on participants' self-reported individual and relational well-being after the first lockdown (more generally and more specific in response to COVID-19). Additionally, we investigated if relational well-being predicted perceived change in individual well-being from pre- to post-COVID-19 regulations. To test these hypotheses, self-report data was collected during the Summer of 2020 in both the Dutch and French speaking part of Belgium. Data from 679 participants suggested that individual and relational well-being only differed based on parental status (and not by gender nor sexual orientation). Importantly, parents reported lower relational well-being than participants without children, while participants without children reported higher perceived increases in depression. People that had been in a relationship for longer also reported lower relational well-being, but this relationship was explained by other confounding factors. Relational well-being buffered increases in individual distress that people perceived to have occurred pre-COVID-19 regulations to after COVID-19 regulations went into effect. These findings might inform practice and policy for individuals in a romantic relationship during the COVID-19 pandemic.","11":"Since the WHO declared the COVID-19 pandemic on March 11, 2020, the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, has profoundly impacted public health and the economy worldwide. But there are not the only ones to be hit. The COVID-19 pandemic has also substantially altered mental health, with anxiety symptoms being one of the most frequently reported problems. Especially, the number of people reporting anxiety symptoms increased significantly during the first lockdown-phase compared to similar data collected before the pandemic. Yet, most of these studies relied on a unitary approach to anxiety, wherein its different constitutive features (i.e., symptoms) were tallied into one sum-score, thus ignoring any possibility of interactions between them. Therefore, in this study, we seek to map the associations between the core features of anxiety during the first weeks of the first Belgian COVID-19 lockdown-phase (n = 2,829). To do so, we implemented, in a preregistered fashion, two distinct computational network approaches: a Gaussian graphical model and a Bayesian network modelling approach to estimate a directed acyclic graph. Despite their varying assumptions, constraints, and computational methods to determine nodes (i.e., the variables) and edges (i.e., the relations between them), both approaches pointed to excessive worrying as a node playing an especially influential role in the network system of the anxiety features. Altogether, our findings offer novel data-driven clues for the ongoing field's larger quest to examine, and eventually alleviate, the mental health consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic.","12":null,"13":null,"14":"The COVID-19 pandemic strongly impacts adolescents' mental health, a population particularly vulnerable to mental disorders, highlighting the need to identify protective factors against COVID-19 related psychological distress to inform policies and intervention strategies. Previous research suggests that mindfulness may be a promising factor that can lower the risk of detrimental psychological consequences related to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, it is currently unknown which aspects of mindfulness contribute most to its protective effects. Moreover, previous studies mainly focused on adult samples. The present study aimed to address this gap by investigating the impact of specific mindfulness facets on adolescents' COVID-19 related psychological functioning. 246 Dutch-speaking adolescents were recruited via social media to complete a cross-sectional online survey between June 29 and October 11, 2020. Participants were 16-18 years of age, most of them women (71%), and the majority followed the highest level of Belgian secondary education. Logistic regression analyses were performed to test the differential effects of each mindfulness facet on psychological functioning. Our results identified decentering as the facet of mindfulness that was uniquely associated with decreased worry and stress, improved mental health and quality of life, as well as with an increase in social connectedness with others following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Unexpectedly, decentering was negatively associated with adolescents' helping behaviour during compared to before the pandemic. Implications for research on and application of mindfulness are discussed. Taken together, these findings suggest that the facet of decentering, among all facets of mindfulness, may represent the main protective factor against psychological distress during the COVID-19 pandemic.","15":"Suicide is a global public health concern that affects all echelons of society, albeit not equally so. Compared with adults in the general population, incarcerated offenders are at increased risk to consider, attempt, and die by suicide, which represents a substantial burden of morbidity and mortality in prisons worldwide. This review synthesises recent literature pertaining to the epidemiology, risk factors, and prevention of suicidal thoughts and behaviour among prisoners, and outlines a framework which emphasises the interplay between individuals (importation) and their surroundings (deprivation). The available evidence suggests that prison-specific stressors may exacerbate risk of suicide in an already vulnerable population characterised by complex health and social care needs. Emerging data point to differential mechanisms through which prisoners come to think about suicide and subsequently progress to suicidal behaviour. As risk of suicide is determined by a complex web of synergistically interacting factors, its management and prevention demands a cross-sectoral policy and service response that includes targeted interventions aimed at high-risk prisoners in combination with population strategies that promote the health and wellbeing of all people in prison.","16":"The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns negatively impacted the mental health of populations. This impact is not equally distributed and increases existing mental health inequalities. Indeed, government restrictions and the economic consequences of the pandemic affect more the less educated and less wealthy people. However, psychological processes implicated in this increase of mental health inequalities during the COVID-19 pandemic remain unexplored. The present study (N=591) tested the role of financial insecurity and attentional control in the relation between socioeconomic status and mental health, along with the influence of trait anxiety. Based on Structural Equation Modelling, findings showed a mediation effect of financial insecurity, but not of attentional control, in the relationship between socioeconomic status and mental health. In addition, exploratory analyses suggested that financial insecurity also mediated the effect of attentional control on mental health. Results of the present research point at the importance of understanding psychological processes implicated in the effect of economic crises on mental health inequalities.","17":"In the present study, we investigated the relationship between friendship quality (dimensions) and non-suicidal self-injury (NSSI) as well as the moderating role of gender and age in this relationship. The sample consisted of 463 children and adolescents (50.10% female, age range: 9-17 years). Friendship quality and NSSI were measured using the Friendship Qualities Scale (FQS; Bukowski, Hoza, &amp; Boivin, 1994) and the Self Harm Inventory (SHI; Sansone, Wiederman, &amp; Sansone, 1998), respectively. Overall, total friendship quality and NSSI were significantly and negatively related. Additionally, the relationship between total friendship quality and NSSI was moderated by gender and age. Specifically, girls with low friendship quality reported more NSSI; whereas for boys an opposite effect was found. As for age, friendship quality and NSSI were positively related in older participants. In younger participants, a relationship between friendship quality and NSSI seemed rather absent. This study highlights the important association between friendship quality and NSSI, as well as gender- and age-related differences in this association, which should be taken into account in the prevention and treatment of NSSI.","18":"Numerous studies confirm the merits of positive psychology. However, an emerging literature brings nuances, with one particular question concerning the impact of pursuing happiness: is this always positive? Some data suggest that an excessive level of valuing happiness may partly diminish the happiness felt, but that prioritizing positivity may increase subjective well-being. The aim of the present study was to replicate these findings. Participants (N = 683, 75% female) completed the prioritizing positivity scale (PPS) and the valuing happiness scale (VHS), as well as four well-being scales: the subjective happiness scale (SHS), the satisfaction with life scale (SWLS), the psychological well-being scales (PWB) and the center for epidemiological studies - depression (CES-D). Regression analyses showed that prioritizing positivity was positively associated with subjective happiness, life satisfaction and psychological well-being, but that it was negatively linked to depression. Opposite results partly emerged for valuing happiness. This cross-sectional study confirms that the way people pursue happiness, by prioritizing positivity or valuing it, may promote or partly hinder well-being.","19":"","20":"There is increasing evidence that blue spaces, particularly coastal environments, are beneficial for well-being. During the first-wave lockdown of the COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium, access to the coast was restricted due to restraint in circulation. Making use of this unique opportunity, this study investigated whether access and visits to the coast were positively associated with well-being by using a quasi-experimental design. The emotions of awe and nostalgia were studied as potential mediators between coastal visits and well-being. A total of 687 Flemish adults took part in an online survey that was launched end of April until beginning of June 2020. After controlling for covariates, results showed that access to the coast, but not visit frequency, was positively associated with well-being. More specifically, coastal residents reported less boredom and worry, and more happiness than inland residents. Awe and nostalgia were not significantly associated with coastal visits, but awe was negatively correlated with boredom. The study suggests a potential buffer effect of residential proximity to the coast against negative psychological consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, supporting the notion that the coast has a positive impact on well-being.","21":"Over the past 20 years, much progress has been made in understanding the relations between memory and future thinking, and their role in shaping our sense of self and identity. My own interest in these research questions owes much to Martial Van der Linden, with whom I had the chance to interact closely for several years. The purpose of this article is to pay tribute to him by reviewing the work we initiated together on autobiographical memory and future-oriented thinking. I first review our early work on the relationship between memory and future thinking and discuss their role in self-representation. Then, I provide an overview of the underlying neural bases and describe the alterations of autobiographical thinking that characterize certain psychological disorders. Finally, I outline an integrative framework that I recently proposed to account for the cognitive structure of past and future autobiographical thinking.","22":"To limit the spread of COVID-19, many countries, including Belgium, have installed physical distancing measures. Yet, adherence to these newly installed behavioral measures has been described as challenging and effortful. Based on the Health Action Process Approach (HAPA) model, this study performed an in-depth evaluation of when, why, and how people deviated from the physical distancing measures. An online mixed-method study was conducted among Belgian adults (N = 2055) in the beginning of May 2020. Participants were recruited via an open call through email and social media platforms, using snowball sampling. Conditions wherein people deviated from the physical distancing measures were assessed by means of an open-ended question. HAPA determinants were assessed in a quantitative way. Half of the sample reported to deviate from the measures. Further, deviation from the measures was associated with each determinant outlined by the HAPA. Findings highlight that many people deviated from the measures because of their need for social contact. The majority of the people who deviated from the measures stated that they carefully weighed the risks of their behavior. Need for social contact pushed people to deviate from physical distancing measures in a deliberate manner. Potential areas for future interventions aimed at promoting adherence to physical distancing measures and enhancing psychosocial well-being are discussed. ","23":"Body image (BI) disturbance is a relevant factor in the etiology and treatment of eating disorders (ED). Although progress has been made in recent decades in understanding BI and its relationship with ED, the efficacy of BI disturbance prevention and intervention programs is still limited. In order to reach deeper understanding of BI disturbance and clarify the interactions between some protective and risk factors related to this construct, we carried out a literature review on some specific BI-related factors that so far have been analyzed independently. We specifically examined positive and negative BI; embodiment and its role in the development of positive and negative BI; and self-compassion as a protective factor that promotes positive embodiment (vs. disembodiment) and protection against body shame. We conclude that integrating the available evidence on these factors into BI models may be used to enhance our understanding of BI and improve the efficacy of prevention and intervention programs to help fight negative BI (by reducing body shame and disembodiment) and promote positive BI (by increasing self-compassion and positive embodiment).","24":"Metadehumanization, the perception of being treated as less than a human by others, is a pervasive phenomenon in intergroup relations. It is dissociated from stigmatization or stereotypes, and it has been recently identified as a critical process in severe alcohol use disorders (SAUD). Metadehumanization is associated with a wide array of negative consequences for the victim, including negative emotions, aversive self-awareness, cognitive deconstruction, and psychosomatic strains, which are related to anxiety and depression. This study aims to investigate if metadehumanization occurring among patients with SAUD is associated with clinical factors involved in the maintenance of the disease, namely symptoms of depression or anxiety and drinking refusal self-efficacy. A cross-sectional study was conducted among 120 patients with SAUD. Self-reported questionnaires measured metadehumanization, self-dehumanization (i.e., the feeling of being less than a human), anxiety, depression, drinking refusal self-efficacy, and demographics. Metadehumanization was significantly associated with self-dehumanization, anxiety, depression, and drinking refusal self-efficacy. Additionally, path analyses showed that self-dehumanization mediated the links between metadehumanization and clinical variables. These results indicate that metadehumanization and self-dehumanization could be essential factors to consider during SAUD treatment, as they are associated with increased psychiatric symptoms and reduced drinking refusal self-efficacy.","25":"This article explores how emotions connected to the Government's handling of the Covid-19 outbreak in Sweden relates to behaviors to stop the spread of the virus, and which emotions functions as mediators in this relationship. The Swedish approach to handling the outbreak greatly differed from how many other Western European countries handled the situation and thus makes an important case to study. In a large representative survey (N = 2449), we found that satisfaction with how the Government handled the situation was related to more positive and less negative emotions. Anxiety, compassion and pride mediated the effect of satisfaction on compliance with the national recommendations such that anxiety and compassion increased compliance, while pride decreased it. Importantly though, satisfaction increased compassion and pride, but only compassion led to more compliant behaviors. In fact, satisfaction was indirectly related to less compliant behaviors via anxiety and pride. Shame mediated the effect on the tendency to wear face masks, a behavior that was explicitly not endorsed by the Swedish Public Health Agency. We speculate if the face mask, which was intensely debated, became a politicized symbol of dissatisfaction with the Swedish approach. In sum, it seems that individuals who were dissatisfied with how the government handled the Covid-19 outbreak were in fact engaging more in health-promotional behaviors to stop the spread of the virus.","26":"The Covid-19 crisis has many characteristics susceptible to emphasize gendered prescriptions. In the present research, we argue that the Covid-19 crisis should promote citizenship behaviors (CB) consistent with gender stereotypes. Two pre-registered experiments were conducted during lockdown in France (Study 1) and United Kingdom (Study 2). We manipulated the salience of the Covid-19 crisis using a fake newspaper article and showed that women were more likely than men to engage in CB of altruism and sacrifice. Meta-analysis results of the two studies confirmed that these gender differences were larger when the Covid-19 crisis was highly salient (vs. control condition). For women, more than for men, engaging in altruistic behaviors and making sacrifice for the greater good are perceived as the behaviors to endorse to cope with the Covid-19 crisis.","27":"Mixed results of the impact of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on working memory have been reported. Contrarily to previous studies who focused mainly on stimulating the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, we modulated the left intraparietal sulcus (IPS) area which is considered to support attentional control aspects of working memory. Using a within-participant experimental design, participants completed three different conditions: anodal stimulation of the IPS, cathodal stimulation of the IPS, and sham stimulation of the IPS. Both visual and verbal working memory tasks were administered. In the visual task, participants had to memorize a random set of colored figures. In the verbal task, participants had to memorize a string of letters. Working memory load was manipulated in both tasks (six figures\/letters vs. two figures\/letters). No significant differences in accuracy or reaction time between the anodal, cathodal and sham conditions were found. Bayesian analysis supported evidence for an absence of effect. The results of the present study add to the growing body of contradictory evidence regarding the modulatory effects of single session tDCS on working memory performance.","28":"This exploratory study assessed parents' perceptions of the emotional and behavioral impacts of the COVID-19 lockdown on their children. The total sample included 749 children, aged 4 to 13 years old (353 girls, 396 boys); 524 parents took part. The emotional and behavioral changes observed during the societal lockdown, family coexistence, the impact of COVID-19 on family well-being, and the frequency of social contacts before and during this lockdown were investigated. Results show that the most frequently reported difficulties were worry, agitation, anxiety, sadness, loneliness, nervousness, arguing, anger, frustration, boredom, irritability, behavioral problems, and laziness. Family coexistence declined significantly during this lockdown, and parents mentioned that COVID-19 had an impact on family well-being. Various ordinal logistic regressions showed that family coexistence, children's nervousness due to COVID-19, the impact of COVID-19 on family well-being, age, and social contacts before and during this lockdown seemed to explain the various emotional and behavioral changes observed in children during the societal lockdown. These results are discussed and recommendations are made.","29":"Egocentric distance perception is a psychological process in which observers use various depth cues to estimate the distance between a target and themselves. The impairment of basic visual function and treatment of amblyopia have been well documented. However, the disorder of egocentric distance perception of amblyopes is poorly understood. In this review, we describe the cognitive mechanism of egocentric distance perception, and then, we focus on empirical evidence for disorders in egocentric distance perception for amblyopes in the whole visual space. In the personal space (within 2 m), it is difficult for amblyopes to show normal hand-eye coordination; in the action space (within 2 m~30 m), amblyopes cannot accurately judge the distance of a target suspended in the air. Few studies have focused on the performance of amblyopes in the vista space (more than 30 m). Finally, five critical topics for future research are discussed: 1) it is necessary to systematically explore the mechanism of egocentric distance perception in all three spaces; 2) the laws of egocentric distance perception in moving objects for amblyopes should be explored; and 3) the comparison of three subtypes of amblyopia is still insufficient; 4) study the perception of distance under another theoretical framework; 5) explore the mechanisms of amblyopia by Virtual Reality.","30":"The spread of COVID-19 and the implementation of various containment strategies across the world have seriously disrupted people's everyday life, and it is especially uncertain what the psychological impact of this pandemic will be for vulnerable individuals, such as psychiatric (ex-)patients. Governments fear that this virus outbreak may prelude a major mental health crisis, and psychiatrists launch critical calls to flatten an upcoming mental ill-health surge. Here, we aim to add nuance to the idea that we are heading towards a mental health pandemic and that psychiatric populations will unavoidably (re)develop psychopathology. Despite being subjected to the same challenges posed by COVID-19, we argue that people with a history of psychiatric illness will psychologically deal with this adversity in different ways. To showcase the short-term differential impact of COVID-19 on patients' mental health, we present the day-to-day emotion and symptom trajectories of different psychiatric patients that took part in an experience sampling study before, during, and after the start of the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020 and associated lockdown measures in Belgium. Piecewise regression models show that not all patients' psychological well-being is affected to a similar degree. As such, we argue that emphasizing human resilience, also among the more vulnerable in society, may be opportune in these unsettling times.","31":"Virtual reality (VR) offers many opportunities for post-stroke rehabilitation. However, \"VR\" can refer to several types of computer-based rehabilitation systems. Since these systems may impact the feasibility and the efficacy of VR interventions, consistent terminology is important. In this study, we aimed to optimize the terminology for VR-based post-stroke rehabilitation by assessing whether and how review papers on this topic defined VR and what types of mixed reality systems were discussed. In addition, this review can inspire the use of consistent terminology for other researchers working with VR. We assessed the use of the term VR in review papers on post-stroke rehabilitation extracted from Scopus, Web of Science and PubMed. We also developed a taxonomy distinguishing 16 mixed reality systems based on three factors: immersive versus semi-immersive displays, the way in which real and virtual information is mixed, and the main input device. 64% of the included review papers (N = 121) explicitly defined VR and 33% of them described different subtypes of VR, with immersive and non-immersive VR as the most common distinction. The most frequently discussed input devices were motion-capture cameras and handheld devices, while regular 2D monitors were the most frequently mentioned output devices. Our analysis revealed that reviews on post-stroke VR rehabilitation did not or only broadly defined \"VR\" and did not focus on a specific system. Since the efficacy and feasibility of rehabilitation may depend on the specific system, we propose a new data-driven taxonomy to distinguish different systems, which is expected to facilitate communication amongst researchers and clinicians working with virtual reality.","32":"When presented with novel but semantically related elements after learning verbal material, healthy participants tend to endorse these items as previously learned. This reflects the normal integration and association of novel verbal information into long-term memory. How obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) negatively impacts verbal memory performance, and whether deficits are reversible following positive airway pressure (PAP) treatment, remain elusive. We investigated immediate and delayed OSA- and PAP treatment-related effects on verbal memory integration, using a false memory paradigm. Twenty-three patients with OSA learned lists of words semantically related to target non-presented words (1) at baseline after a polysomnography diagnosis night, (2) after a consecutive polysomnography night under PAP titration, and (3) after three months of compliant PAP treatment. At each session, participants learned 10 different lists of words, each list comprising 15 semantically related items. They had then to recognize 15 minutes later (after an intermediate vigilance task) previously learned words within a list including studied words (learned), unstudied but semantically related items (lures), and non-related unstudied items (controls). Sleep quality and fatigue questionnaires, and psychomotor vigilance tests (PVT) were administered at each session. PAP treatment led to OSA remission and improvement in objective and subjective sleep quality. Crucially, recognition of learned and lure words increased after the first night under treatment and remained stable three months later, suggesting successful memory integration and restoration of semantic processes. No treatment-related outcome was found on PVT performance. OSA exerts a detrimental but PAP-reversible effect on verbal learning and semantic memory integration mechanisms underlying the acquisition of novel memory representations.","33":"Despite the frequency of women's exposure to sexually objectifying behaviors in their daily life (e.g., through comments on their appearance, gazing or touching), no previous work has investigated how such a focus on their physical appearance influences women's meta-perceptions. Capitalizing on recent studies showing that sexually objectified women are dehumanized by both male and female participants, the present paper investigates women's metadehumanization (i.e., their perceptions of being viewed as less than fully human) and its emotional consequences following interpersonal sexual objectification. In three studies, we showed that when an interaction partner focuses on their physical appearance, women report higher levels of metadehumanization, as well as increased anger and sadness, than when the partner focuses on non-physical parts. Theoretical and empirical contributions of the present findings are discussed.","34":"The study aimed to examine the psychometric properties of the Dutch Life Orientation Test-Revised for Adolescents (LOT-R-A), a self-report questionnaire assessing dispositional optimism, and to evaluate the two-factor structure (optimism, pessimism). The LOT-R-A and the questionnaires measuring well-being (MHC-SF-A) and psychological problems (SDQ) were completed by 459 Dutch adolescents (178 boys and 281 girls) between the ages of 11 and 18 years at baseline and 281 adolescents at a four-week follow-up. The results confirmed the two-factor structure (optimism, pessimism) of the LOT-R-A. The findings provided evidence of internal consistency of scores ranging from low to good, and evidence of good test-retest reliability of scores. Further, scores of optimism were cross-sectionally positively associated with scores of positive emotions and well-being and negatively with scores of psychological problems and negative emotions, providing evidence of convergent and divergent validity of optimism scores with emotions, well-being, and psychological problems. Lastly, scores of optimism were prospectively positively associated with scores of well-being and negatively with scores of psychological problems, providing evidence of criterion validity of optimism scores with well-being and psychological problems. Based on these findings it can be concluded that the LOT-R-A is a valid instrument to examine optimism among adolescents. Future research can help to elucidate the role of optimism in mental health interventions and can gather knowledge on how these interventions can be refined to optimally cultivate optimism during the developmental period of adolescence.","35":"Adult attachment style has consequences for mental health, interpersonal functioning and emotion regulation. This occurs partly deliberately, also referred to as explicit, and partly on an automatic level outside of conscious awareness, also referred to as implicit. Whereas explicit adult attachment can be assessed with self-report instruments, measurement of implicit adult attachment requires indirect methods. This paper describes the psychometric properties of two Implicit Association Tests measuring general adult attachment in a population sample. The study evaluated the reliability and the validity of the Avoidant Attachment IAT (ANX-IAT) and the Anxious Attachment IAT (AVOID-IAT). Validity was evaluated against self-report measures of adult attachment style (RQ), psychopathology (SQ-48), and well-being (MHC-SF). The split-half reliabilities of both IATs were good; the test-retest reliability of the ANX-IAT was adequate; however the AVOID-IAT had low test-retest reliability. Both IATs did not explain variance in psychopathology additional to explicit measures. The AVOID-IAT showed added value over explicit measurement of avoidant attachment in explaining variance in well-being, particularly regarding emotional and psychological well-being. The ANX-IAT did not explain variance in any measure of well-being additional to the explicit measure of anxious attachment. Our findings provide a basis from which more valid IATs measuring general adult attachment can be developed. Furthermore, they suggest that implicit avoidant attachment might be related to well-being, particularly emotional and psychological well-being. However, further research is needed to investigate the role of implicit general adult attachment in mental health and to optimize the two IATs in terms of validity before clinical use is recommended.","36":"The objective of the current study was to investigate the role of perceived parental support as a moderator in the association between adolescents' expectations in romantic relations and their psychological well-being. The sample consisted of 647 adolescents (boys = 285, girls = 362). Their age ranged from 16 to 18 years (M = 17.19 years, SD = .77) and they were regular students in different colleges of Islamabad and Rawalpindi. They completed the Perceived Parental Support Scale, the Well-being Questionnaire-W-BQ12 and the Romantic Relations Scale for Adolescents. The results showed that there were significant gender differences on expectations in romantic relations and psychological well-being with girls scoring higher than boys on expectations in romantic relations while boys scoring higher than girls on psychological well-being. The results also indicated that there was a significant negative association between expectations in romantic relations and psychological well-being. Findings of the moderation analysis showed that perceived parental support moderated the association. Simple slope analysis indicated that there was a significant negative slope for low and medium levels of perceived parental support while the slope was non-significant for high levels of perceived parental support. These results indicated that perceived parental support counters the negative effect of expectations in romantic relations on psychological well-being during adolescence. It is suggested that perceived parental support is important in planning interventions to improve the well-being of adolescents.","37":"To contain the SARS-CoV-2 infection rate, health authorities have encouraged the population to enhance protective behaviors such as physical distancing and handwashing. Behavioral sciences emphasize the role of sociocognitive determinants to explain health behaviors, while largely ignoring emotional factors. In a large online study (N &gt; 4000), we investigated the role of sociodemographic, cognitive, emotional, and social factors that can facilitate or hinder handwashing and limitation of social contacts. Data were collected from March 18 until April 19, 2020, which corresponds to the spring lockdown and the first peak of the pandemic in Belgium. Logistic regressions showed that sociodemographic factors (gender, age, level of education) and the dimensions of the Theory of Planned Behavior (intentions, attitudes, perceived behavioral control and subjective norms) had a strong impact on health behaviors, but that emotional factors explained an additional part of the variance. Being more attentive\/determined and frightened\/anxious, along with scoring higher on health anxiety were related to a higher frequency of handwashing. In contrast, being enthusiastic\/happy was related to lower adherence to limiting social contacts. Our results suggest that the type of predictors and the direction of associations depend on the type of health behavior considered. The role of specific emotional factors in addition to more classical predictors is discussed. The study offers new perspectives regarding the factors that are associated with the adherence to behaviors recommended to adopt when faced with a pandemic.","38":"Cognitive control research is concerned with the question how we install adaptive behaviour in the case of (cognitive) conflict. In this review we focus on the role that awareness of this conflict plays in our ability to exert cognitive control. We will argue that visual conflict is not the only building block of metacognitive experiences of conflict and discuss how they are related to cognitive control. So, a first aim of the current review is to understand how these different metacognitive judgements are created. To do so, we draw some remarkable parallels with research on metacognition in decision making and memory research. Next, we elaborate on the relationship between metacognition and adaptive behaviour, with a specific focus on the role of subjective experiences in the Gratton effect. The grey areas that persist in the current literature are highlighted. In addition to deciphering the mechanisms of metacognitive judgements in cognitive control, this overview also aims to further enlarge our understanding of metacognitive abilities at a more general level.","39":"We propose a new method to test the reliability of Fredrickson et al.'s self-objectification questionnaire (SOQ). This scale being based on a ranking, traditional reliability estimates are inappropriate. Based on generalizability theory, we suggest to compute the reliability of each subset of questions related to physical appearance vs. physical competence separately in order to average them. We applied this method to a sample of female US undergraduates (n = 395) and evidenced that the reliability of the scale is very low (corrected Cronbach's alpha = .31). We also noted that a large proportion of the sample (32%) failed to complete the scale correctly. In a second study (n = 93), we propose a Likert adaptation of the scale and show that the two dimensions of the SOQ are independent. In Study 3 (n = 195), we confirm results of Study 2 and demonstrate that the general structure of the Likert version has satisfactory model fit statistics. These observations lead us to discourage the use of the original version of the SOQ and rely on the Likert version of the Self-Objectification Questionnaire (LSOQ, see appendix).","40":"Behavioral activation (BA) is a well-established empirical treatment for depression that aims to improve depressive mood by increasing activation and reducing avoidance. Therefore, it is essential to evaluate activation and avoidance when a BA treatment is applied. The Behavioral Activation for Depression Scale (BADS) was developed to measure the changes in activation and avoidance over the course of BA treatment of depression. This study aims to validate the French version of this scale. In a first study, 131 bilingual adults were recruited to explored internal consistency, test-retest reliability and construct validity of the final French version. In a second study, 409 non-clinical adults completed an online survey assessing concurrent measures. Results of the first study suggested good internal consistency, test-retest reliability and construct validity. The second study revealed a confirmatory factor analysis supporting the original four-factor structure, with Activation, Avoidance\/Rumination, Work\/School Impairment, and Social Impairment subscales. Results also revealed that a 5-factor model distinguishing Behavioral Avoidance and Rumination had a better fit than the original four-factor structure. All subscales showed adequate internal consistency and good construct validity with evidence of convergent validity with depressive symptoms, brooding, psychological flexibility, negative automatic thought, behavioral inhibition and activation system. Furthermore, the French BADS total scale and subscales showed a good ability to predict depressive symptoms. The French version of the BADS appears to be a reliable tool for clinician and researchers to assess mechanisms of change in BA interventions.","41":"We introduce a new Dutch receptive vocabulary test, the Dutch auditory &amp; image vocabulary test (DAIVT). The test is multiple choice and assesses vocabulary knowledge for spoken words. The measure has an online (available at https:\/\/tpsurvey.ugent.be\/limesurvey315\/index.php\/923234?lang=nl) format, has free access, and allows easy data collection. The test was developed with the intent to enable testing for research purposes with university students. This paper describes the test construction. We cover three phases: 1) collecting stimulus materials and developing the test's first version, 2) an exploratory item-analysis on the first draft (n = 93), and 3) validating the test (both the second and the final version) by comparing it to two existing tests (n = 270, n = 157). The results indicate that the test is reliable and correlates well with existing Dutch receptive vocabulary tests (convergent validity). The final version of the DAIVT comprises 90 test items and 1 practice item. It can be used freely for research purposes.","42":"The present study investigated the (co-)occurrence of non-suicidal self-injury (NSSI) and pathological buying (PB) and their associations with reactive\/regulative temperament in a sample of female patients with eating disorders (ED) and in a sample of community adults. Our samples consisted of 254 community adults (48.8% female) and 60 female patients with ED. All participants filled out self-report questionnaires to assess NSSI, PB, and reactive\/regulative temperament. Prevalence rates of NSSI and PB were respectively 14.5% and 4.8% for community women, 13.1% and 1.5% for community men, and 36.7% and 10% for female patients with ED. Only for community women, NSSI was positively related to PB. NSSI was negatively related to self-regulation in community men and women. Additionally, NSSI was negatively predicted by BAS reactivity in the clinical sample and by the interaction of BAS reactivity and self-regulation in community men. PB was predicted by low self-regulation in the three groups. Additionally, PB was positively predicted by BAS reactivity and by the interaction of BAS reactivity and self-regulation in community women. These findings indicated group differences in the (co-)occurrence of NSSI and PB and in their associations with underlying temperamental characteristics between individuals with and without ED.","43":"This critical PhD review paper examines existing scholarship on ethical leadership in sport. Following a general trend in business ethics and related fields, ethical leadership has gained considerable research attention in sport over the last decades. Within this growing body of literature, ethical leadership is often presented as part of the desired strategic response of sport organizations to tackle the so-called dark side of sport (i.e., formed by such ethical issues as abuse, violence, management fraud, match-fixing, and doping). However, this critical PhD review paper argues that the current body of literature on ethical leadership in sport has matured along two strongly related yet quite isolated lines of inquiry: a normative (i.e., philosophical) and a descriptive (i.e., empirical) line. While the normative line of inquiry focuses on what ethical leadership in sport should look like based on moral reasoning, the descriptive line examines how ethical leadership in sport is perceived in practice and how it relates to certain antecedents and outcomes. As both lines offer complementary insights, we advocate future research to bridge this gap to come to an improved understanding of ethical leadership in sport. To this aim, we propose a broad stakeholder perspective on ethical leadership in sport, in which necessary attention is given to how all involved stakeholders make sense of ethical leadership as a socially constructed and context-dependent phenomenon.","44":"Research concerning the influence of core interpersonal patterns related to childhood trauma on the therapeutic process is scarce. We investigated interpersonal patterns at the start of treatment, changes in interpersonal patterns as treatment progressed, and the change process in a mixed-methods single case study of a supportive-expressive psychodynamic psychotherapy with a 33-year-old female with a history of childhood trauma. The patient showed a pervasive inability to open up towards others throughout the entire treatment, which is closely associated with others' actual or anticipated rejection, disrespect and disinterest. Excessive use of expressive interventions, which target interpersonal change, initially led to a worsening of the patient's condition. Via supportive and general interventions, symptom stabilization was achieved. The findings of this study suggest a thorough understanding of dominant interpersonal patterns is necessary to recognize their influence on the therapy process.","45":"Obsessions - recurrent unwanted intrusive thoughts - are one of the two pillars of the Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD). Although OCD has been reported across many different cultures, research on these cultural variations is hampered by the lack of cross-culturally sound instruments to assess intrusive thoughts. The aim of the current study is to investigate the psychometric properties of the recently developed Leuven Obsessional Intrusions Instrument (LOII) in two different cultural contexts. Turkish (N = 663) and Belgian (N = 496) participants were sampled from non-clinical student populations. Results from confirmatory factor analyses yielded a shortened version of the LOII (i.e., LOII-R) with a four-factor solution - aggressive, sexual, and contamination intrusions, and 'just-right' doubts - as the best fitting model across both cultures. The model met most criteria for strong measurement invariance, and proved to be both valid and reliable. The results of this study suggest that the LOII-R is a good candidate for cross-cultural studies on obsessional intrusions.","46":"Eating disorder symptomatology generally develops during adolescence and emerging adulthood. Previous research has focused on the role of identity formation or body image in the development of eating disorder symptomatology, but integrative work is lacking. For this reason, the present cross-sectional study examined the mediating role of body dissatisfaction in the relation between identity formation and eating disorder symptomatology. The sample comprised 659 participants between 15 and 30 years old (68.9% females; Mage = 19.44; SDage = 3.99). All participants completed self-report measures on identity (Self-concept and Identity Measure), body dissatisfaction (the Body Image Feelings and Attitudes subscale of the Body Investment Scale and the Body Dissatisfaction subscale of the Eating Disorder Inventory-3), and eating disorder symptomatology (Eating Disorder Inventory-3). Latent variable modeling from a structural equation modeling approach was used. First, identity formation significantly predicted eating disorder symptomatology. Additionally, indirect effects were found linking identity formation to eating disorder symptomatology through the mechanism of body dissatisfaction. No significant differences between males and females or between adolescents and emerging adults on direct or indirect effects were found. The present study indicated that body dissatisfaction mediated the relationship between identity formation and eating disorder symptomatology during mid-to-late adolescence and emerging adulthood. Provided that the present findings can be replicated in a future longitudinal study, they demonstrate that both identity formation and body dissatisfaction should be taken into account in prevention and intervention programs targeting eating disorder symptomatology. ","47":null,"48":null,"49":"Numerous studies have shown a consistent relationship between verbal working memory (WM) and native-language as well as non-native language learning abilities. However, the role of attentional abilities has been rarely explored, although these abilities have been shown to be associated both with verbal working memory and oral language proficiency. This study investigated the association between WM, attention and language proficiency in young adults raised with three different languages (Luxembourgish, German and French). Auditory-verbal WM abilities were assessed via an immediate serial recall task. Attentional abilities were assessed via auditory-verbal and visuo-spatial attentional tasks. Using a Bayesian correlational approach, we observed robust evidence for an association between auditory-verbal WM abilities and non-native language proficiency. At the same time, we observed no reliable evidence in favor of an association between language proficiency and auditory-verbal\/visuo-spatial attentional measures. These results suggest that auditory-verbal WM and non-native language proficiency are strongly linked in young multilingual adults, irrespective of auditory-verbal or visuo-spatial attentional abilities.","50":"In recent years, examination anxiety among teachers assumes a critical sphere in the global academic environment. The causes of teacher examination anxiety in education have been reviewed by a few scholars. This shows that teacher examination anxiety and its impact on academic development are limited in research. Therefore, this study investigated the linear relationship between two self-report instruments - the causes of teacher examination anxiety and dimensions of coping with pre-exam anxiety. The study adopted a quantitative approach with three-hundred teachers from four secondary schools in Nigeria and twenty teachers from two secondary schools in North Cyprus participated in the survey. Also, a Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) was utilized for the analysis. The results of the study indicate that the two factors (teacher causes of exam anxiety and dimensions of coping with pre-exam anxiety) are interconnected. The results also indicate teachers' preparation for examinations coupled with various dimensions of anxiety is a complex task that demands educational stakeholders to constantly improving on causes of examination anxiety and factors of pre-exam anxiety among teachers for better academic and ethical development.","51":"In recent years, an important number of studies aimed at levelling the playing field for women and men at the bargaining table. In spite of this, women continue to find themselves largely at a disadvantage when negotiating with a male counterpart. In this review, we focus on a neglected yet potentially important factor contributing to the gender gap in negotiations, namely people's gender ideology. We argue that gender ideology shapes day-to-day negotiations and we offer insights regarding its consequences on the bargaining process. We first present the available contributions regarding gender in negotiations and underline the most significant variables that lead to gender effects in negotiations. We then introduce gender ideology as a potentially important variable in the process and lean upon previous studies to support our claim.","52":"The current research examined the link between both normal and malevolent personality, proactive attitude, and self-perceived employability across some highly investigated (Belgium, Switzerland) and under-investigated populations of sub-Saharan Africa (e.g., Togo), considering proactive attitude as a potential mediator and self-perceived employability as an outcome. Conducting such a study in contexts which present notable differences in political organization and linguistic diversity, might contribute to enriching the literature on the relationships between personality and self-perceived employability. A sample of 968 participants aged 18 to 85 including 335 Belgians (50% women), 279 Swiss (58.1% women) and 354 Togolese (43.5% women) completed a French version of the Zuckerman-Kuhlman-Aluja Personality Questionnaire (ZKA-PQ\/SF), Short Dark Triad (SD3), Proactive Attitude Scale (PAS), and Perceived Employability Scale (PES). All four instruments exhibited metric invariance but did not systematically show scalar invariance across the three countries. ZKA-PQ\/SF's activity and neuroticism and SD3's narcissism dimensions predicted perceived employability, and these relations were fully or partially mediated by proactive attitude in all cultural contexts. Moreover, perceived employability was predicted by aggressiveness and psychopathy in the Swiss sample and by sensation seeking in both the Swiss and the Belgian samples. Finally, proactive attitude fully mediated between sensation seeking and employability in Belgium and partially between psychopathy and employability in Switzerland. This study illustrates that the link between personality and employability may be mediated by proactive attitude and that these links may be quite robust across cultures.","53":"Based on the Job Demands-Resources model, this study examined the association of learning opportunities of adolescents at school and work with their mental health, operationalized in terms of life satisfaction and depression. Intrinsic motivation at school and at work were studied as potential mediators. Within a representative sample of adolescents (n = 474), the results supported within domain relationships in the sense that learning opportunities at school and at work were positively related to intrinsic motivation at school and at work, respectively, which in turn were related to higher levels of life satisfaction and lower levels of depression. Cross-domain relationships were not significant, except for a negative relationship between learning opportunities at work and intrinsic motivation at school, suggesting that having a good job can pull students away from school.","54":null,"55":"Balanced time perspective (BTP) describes a tendency to focus on past, present and future time horizons that fosters well-being and positive life outcomes. Deviation from the balanced time perspective is a widespread method to measure the balance, but it makes assumptions regarding levels of time perspectives constituting BTP. In the present research we aimed to test the assumptions regarding levels of time perspectives constituting BTP by testing associations between time perspectives and domains of well-being in four independent samples (N = 1150). The results showed that higher well-being was fostered by greater past positive (PP) and future (F) and lower past negative (PN) and present fatalistic (PF) time perspectives in a linear manner. As for the present hedonistic (PH) perspective, the results were inconsistent indicating that this time orientation can be unrelated to well-being or related in an inverse U-shape manner. In the light of our results the optimal values for the deviation from the balanced time perspective, as measured with the Zimbardo Time Perspective Inventory, should be revisited and changed into PN 1, PP 5, PF 1, PH 3.4, F 5, with careful consideration whether or not to incorporate PH into the formula for the deviation from the balanced time perspective at all. We also showed that the deviation from the balanced time perspective using the above values better predicts well-being than the one using previously assumed levels.","56":"Infertility may be associated with severe psychological burden and many couples need mental support. We used dyadic approach to identify couples with disturbed psychological condition and we tested the WHO-5 Well-Being Index (WHO-5-WBI) questionnaire as a possible, rapid screening method. Extensive psychological assessment of infertile couples was carried out with Beck's Depression Inventory, Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, WHO-5-WBI, Symptom Check List-90 Revised Test, Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence, Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test. Data of 128 patients (64 couples) were used in the statistical calculations. The Two-Step cluster analysis has revealed 2 groups, which could be separated supremely based on the level of experienced depression, anxiety and according to the general mental health. The WHO-5-WBI questionnaire showed consistent results while classifying couples into groups, which were formed. Our results indicate that infertility affects both spouses almost in the same extent in several psychological aspects. A cluster of couples with increased psychological burden could be clearly separated. The WHO-5-WBI questionnaire was a promising tool to screen reliably spouses based on their psychological state and identify couples that need psychological support during their fertility work-up and treatment.","57":"This study qualitatively explores differences in psychological contract (PC) content between Belgian and Chinese employees, while attempting to understand these differences from the perspective of cultural values. We build on theory concerning horizontal and vertical individualism\/collectivism to interpret differences in PC content. 21 Chinese and 20 Belgian employees were interviewed, with results indicating that Belgian interviewees' PCs tend to be balanced with an emphasis on egalitarian interpersonal relationships, reflecting a horizontal collectivist culture. We propose that a \"culture of compromise\" forms a fitting description for Belgian interviewees' PCs. For Chinese interviewees, the PC was characterized by mixed contracts aligning with the ideology of 'Utilitarianistic Guanxi', which forms a Chinese philosophy that combines the pursuit of profit with objective goods, reflecting a culture of vertical collectivism.","58":"Massive open online courses (MOOCs) generate learners' performance data that can be used to understand learners' proficiency and to improve their efficiency. However, the approaches currently used, such as assessing the proportion of correct responses in assessments, are oversimplified and may lead to poor conclusions and decisions because they do not account for additional information on learner, content, and context. There is a need for theoretically grounded data-driven explainable educational measurement approaches for MOOCs. In this conceptual paper, we try to establish a connection between psychometrics, a scientific discipline concerned with techniques for educational and psychological measurement, and MOOCs. First, we describe general principles of traditional measurement of learners' proficiency in education. Second, we discuss qualities of MOOCs which hamper direct application of approaches based on these general principles. Third, we discuss recent developments in measuring proficiency that may be relevant for analyzing MOOC data. Finally, we draw directions in psychometric modeling that might be interesting for future MOOC research.","59":null,"60":"Little is actually known about the nature and characteristics of the cognitive dissonance state. In this paper, we review the actual knowledge and the main limitations of past studies. Then, we present two studies that investigate the characteristics of the cognitive dissonance state from the perspective the Pleasure Arousal Dominance model of emotion. Study 1 (N = 102) used the hypocrisy paradigm and Study 2 (N = 130) used a counterattitudinal essay. In Study 1, participants in the Dissonance condition reported less Pleasure with each inconsistent behaviour remembered. In Study 2, participants in the Dissonance condition reported less Pleasure than participants in the Control Condition. In both studies, no significant difference was found on the Arousal and Dominance indexes. These results are among the first to link cognitive dissonance to a general model of emotions, an approach that should be pursued further.","61":"The objective of this ex post facto study was to find out how different coping and personality styles influence satisfaction with life in a group of 55 people with chronic kidney disease, 34 of whom were receiving haemodialysis and 21 had undergone a kidney transplant. The participants completed three questionnaires, the SWLS, CAEPO and MIPS. The results showed the relationship between active coping strategies and satisfaction with life in haemodialysis patients, kidney transplant recipients and the total sample. A Pleasure-Enhancing personality style was significantly related to Satisfaction with Life, both in the total sample, and in the two groups separately. There were no significant differences in Satisfaction with Life between the haemodialysis patients and kidney transplant recipients. The theoretical repercussions of these results are discussed, highlighting their applications to clinical practice, in which training in active coping is essential.","62":"Parental identity formation may be a factor of the utmost importance in helping us to understand the mechanisms of adaptation to parenthood. However, our knowledge regarding the processes involved in the development of parental identity is very limited. In the present study the relationships between three dimensions of parental identity (commitment, in-depth exploration, reconsideration of commitment), and two trait-like characteristics that determine the quality of family life, i.e. romantic adult attachment and perfectionism were analyzed. 206 mothers aged 22 to 40 participated in the study (M = 33.33, SD = 3.68). The results revealed that a high level in anxious attachment, avoidant attachment and maladaptive aspects of perfectionism (other-oriented and socially-prescribed perfectionism) positively correlate with a low level of parental identity commitment and a high level of reconsideration of parental commitment. Regression analysis revealed that especially attachment-related anxiety and other-oriented perfectionism can be treated as independent, specific predictors of an increased crisis of parental identity.","63":"As the Inventory of Dimensions of Emerging Adulthood (IDEA) was developed to assess features of emerging adulthood, international differences have been observed between emerging adults over the world. To assess the IDEA's applicability to emerging adults in Flanders, a Dutch translation was administered to 489 participants between 17 and 26 years old, and exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses were performed. Important latent factors in the version used in the United States of America, such as focus on others, were not observed. Four subscales were created to reflect psychological features of our sample, combining elements of both Arnett's theory of emerging adulthood and neo-Eriksonian theories of identity development. A new subscale, reflecting commitment and responsibility, was more present in older participants and employed participants, and associated with well-being. Finally, results suggested that employment, as well as place of residency, and romantic relationships significantly influence psychological development during young adulthood.","64":"[This corrects the article DOI: 10.5334\/pb.469.].","65":"In order to prevent cyberbullying and cyber-victim behaviors that are very common among adolescents, it is important to investigate the factors that underlie these behaviors. The purpose of the present study was to examine the mediator roles of cyber victimization and moral disengagement in the relationship between submissive behavior and cyber bullying. The participants involved 370 Turkish adolescents (female: 47%; male, 53%). The age of participants ranged between 12 and 19 years (M = 15.92, SD = 1.87). Data were collected using the Submissive Behavior Scale, the Cyber Bullying Scale, the Cyber Victimization Scale, and the Moral Disengagement Scale. The data were analyzed using structural equation modeling. A bootstrapping analysis was conducted in order to determine any indirect effects. Structural equation modeling results provided evidence of indirect effects of submissive behavior on cyber bullying mediated by cyber victimization and moral disengagement. Bootstrapping showed that submissive behavior exerted a significant indirect effect on cyber bullying via cyber victimization and moral disengagement. The findings emphasized the role of youth cyber victimization and moral disengagement in explaining the relationship between submissive behavior and cyber bullying. The results of the study were discussed based on relevant literature, and suggestions for future studies were made.","66":"This critical review elaborates on the origin of impulsive actions and how these can be controlled. We focus in particular on the role of negative events. First, we outline how impulsive actions often originate from negative events that are (emotionally) appraised. A discrepancy between this current state and a desired goal state leads to action tendencies. The urgency of the resulting action depends on the importance of the goal and the size of the discrepancy. Second, we discuss how such impulsive actions can be regulated or controlled e.g. by biasing competition between different options, or by completely suppressing all motor output. Importantly, such control mechanisms might also depend on emotional factors. To reconcile these findings, we present a coherent theoretical framework, taking into account various cognitive, affective, and motivational mechanisms as well as contextual factors that play a crucial role in the origin and control of impulsive actions.","67":"Early bilingualism has been shown to improve attentional and executive functioning. Nicolay and Poncelet (2013a, 2015) have shown that an early immersion program in school of 3 years improves the completion of tasks assessing these skills. This study aimed to determine whether similar benefits might be present after only 1 year of immersion education. The study also observed whether these potential advantages might also have a positive effect on the academic achievement. Participants included 59 immersed children and 57 monolingual controls. The two groups were compared using the same tasks as those employed by Nicolay and Poncelet (2015). The immersed children showed faster responses in comparison to monolinguals on the selective auditory task. No significant differences were observed on the other attentional, executive, or academic tasks. These outcomes suggest that a period of immersion education as short as 1 year can yield cognitive advantages associated with bilingualism.","68":"Deviance theory introduces a behavioural view on constructive and destructive deviance to explain how an individual's intent can harm or improve organisational well-being. However, to our knowledge, no scale exists that evaluates the personal orientation aspect of deviance and normativity. This article discusses the creation of the Norm and Deviance-Seeking Personal Orientation Scale (NDPOS). To create this scale, we studied the psychometric properties of the instrument using data from French workers. NDPOS exploratory analysis indicated a 12-item scale composed of four factors: normative conformity, normative rule adequacy, deviant performance seeking, and deviant proactivity seeking. Confirmatory factor analysis corroborated the factorial structure in four sub-scales. Convergent and discriminant validity indicated that deviant dimensions were positively related to expressing voice, cognitive flexibility, and deviant behaviours, whereas normativity dimensions were negatively or not related to these behaviours. Furthermore, opposite relations between the conformity construct and the four factors were observed. Practical implications and suggestions for the development of future research on constructive deviance theory are discussed.","69":"As researchers, we are advised to share our data to improve transparency and increase the reproducibility of experiments. Simultaneously, making data freely accessible can raise ethical questions regarding the participants' privacy. We first outline the challenges regarding \"open data\" for researchers in light of the GDPR. Then, we turn to the impact of an open-access data sharing policy on the participants: could the participants' knowledge about the future use of the data alter the data itself? Through two pre-registered studies (N = 193, collected on campus and N = 543, online participation), we investigate whether disclosing that anonymized data will be publicly shared vs. not shared influences a potential participants' intention to take part in the study. Using both frequentist and Bayesian analysis, we conclude towards an absence of effect of a difference in data sharing policy on scores in the Big Five questionnaire and social desirability, careless response behavior, and results in the anchoring paradigm. In the second study, a lexicometric analysis of participants' reactions to openly sharing data reveals a readiness to share data and support transparency under the condition of preserved anonymity. Hence, if anonymity can be ensured, there seems to be no methodological or ethical drawback in transparent and open data sharing policies for many psychological studies.","70":"A crescendo of incidents have raised concerns about whether scientific practices in psychology may be suboptimal, sometimes leading to the publication, dissemination, and application of unreliable or misinterpreted findings. Psychology has been a leader in identifying possibly suboptimal practices and proposing reforms that might enhance the efficiency of the scientific process and the publication of robust evidence and interpretations. To help shape future efforts, this paper offers a model of the psychological and socio-structural forces and processes that may influence scientists' practices. The model identifies practices targeted by interventions and reforms, and which practices remain unaddressed. The model also suggests directions for empirical research to assess how best to enhance the effectiveness of psychological inquiry.","71":"Regarding the effects of High-Performance Work Systems (HPWS), we can draw two conclusions. First, existing studies on the effects of HPWS on employees' well-being at work are scarce. Second, few studies have considered the relationships between HPWS and work-to-family interface (i.e., work-to-family enrichment, WFE; and work-to-family conflict, WFC). Only one previous study conducted on a Portuguese sample (i.e., Carvalho &amp; Chambel, 2016) has examined the relationships between these concepts in a comprehensive model. Our study aims to replicate one part of Carvalho and Chambel's model but also to extend previous work. We investigated a model of HPWS-employees' well-being at work (i.e., job engagement and job strain) relationships by considering work-to-family interface as a mediator. We surveyed 170 employees of a Belgian company. Data were analysed using structural equation modelling and bootstrapping method. WFE partially mediates the relationships between HPWS and job engagement, whereas WFC partially mediates the relationships between HPWS and job strain. Our study, confirming the results of Carvalho and Chambel (2016), highlights the important role of HPWS in the development of employees' well-being at work. Working in an organization where HPWS are applied leads employees to perceive more enrichment and less conflict between their work and family lives, making them more engaged in and less stressed by their work.","72":"The preregistration of a study's hypotheses, methods, and data-analyses steps is becoming a popular psychological research practice. To date, most of the discussion on study preregistration has focused on the preregistration of studies that include the collection of original data. However, much of the research in psychology relies on the (re-)analysis of preexisting data. Importantly, this type of studies is different from original studies as researchers cannot change major aspects of the study (e.g., experimental manipulations, sample size). Here, we provide arguments as to why it is useful to preregister analyses of preexisting data, discuss practical considerations, consider potential concerns, and introduce a preregistration template tailored for studies focused on the analyses of preexisting data. We argue that the preregistration of hypotheses and data-analyses for analyses of preexisting data is an important step towards more transparent psychological research.","73":"The present paper is the mission statement of the Control of Impulsive Action (Ctrl-ImpAct) Lab regarding Open Science. As early-career researchers (ECRs) in the lab, we first state our personal motivation to conduct research based on the principles of Open Science. We then describe how we incorporate four specific Open Science practices (i.e., Open Methodology, Open Data, Open Source, and Open Access) into our scientific workflow. In more detail, we explain how Open Science practices are embedded into the so-called 'co-pilot' system in our lab. The 'co-pilot' researcher is involved in all tasks of the 'pilot' researcher, that is designing a study, double-checking experimental and data analysis scripts, as well as writing the manuscript. The lab has set up this co-pilot system to increase transparency, reduce potential errors that could occur during the entire workflow, and to intensify collaborations between lab members. Finally, we discuss potential solutions for general problems that could arise when practicing Open Science.","74":"We present a new database of Dutch word recognition times for a total of 54 thousand words, called the Dutch Crowdsourcing Project. The data were collected with an internet vocabulary test. The database is limited to native Dutch speakers. Participants were asked to indicate which words they knew. Their response times were registered, even though the participants were not asked to respond as fast as possible. Still, the response times correlate around .7 with the response times of the Dutch Lexicon Projects for shared words. Also results of virtual experiments indicate that the new response times are a valid addition to the Dutch Lexicon Projects. This not only means that we have useful response times for some 20 thousand extra words, but we now also have data on differences in response latencies as a function of education and age. The new data correspond better to word use in the Netherlands.","75":"Recently in psychological science and many related fields, a surprisingly large amount of experiments could not be replicated by independent researchers. A non-replication could indicate that a previous finding might have been a false positive statistical result and the effect does not exist. However, it could also mean that a specific detail of the experimental procedure is essential for the effect to emerge, which might not have been included in the replication attempt. Therefore any replication attempt that does not replicate the original effect is most informative when the original procedure is closely adhered to. One proposed solution to facilitate the empirical reproducibility of the experimental procedures in psychology is to upload the experimental script and materials to a public repository. However, we believe that merely providing the materials of an experimental procedure is not sufficient, as many software solutions are not freely available, software solutions might change, and it is time consuming to set up the procedure. We argue that there is a simple solution to these problems when an experiment is conducted using computers: recording an example procedure with a screen capture software and providing the video in an online repository. We therefore provide a brief tutorial on screen recordings using an open source screen recording software. With this information, individual researchers should be able to record their experimental procedures and we hope to facilitate the use of screen recordings in computer assisted data collection procedures.","76":"This study aims at acquiring knowledge on how to manage ethnic diversity at work in order to promote work-outcomes in minority and majority groups of workers. We tested a model on how assimilation and multiculturalism, endorsed at an organizational level, predict job satisfaction and intention to quit through a mediation role played by the identification of workers with both the organization and their ethnic group simultaneously (i.e., dual identity). We hypothesized that the indirect effects of multiculturalism on work outcomes via dual identity are stronger for minority and those of assimilation are stronger for majority. Data came from 261 employees who responded to an online survey. 77 were of foreign origin (minority group) and 184 were of Belgian origin (majority group). Both assimilation and multiculturalism relate positively to work-related outcomes for both groups. However, multiculturalism through dual identity has the most beneficial outcomes for workers of the minority group. Our findings highlight the need to take ethnic and identity issues in account when studying work outcomes in culturally diverse organizations.","77":"Technology has drastically reshaped the workplace over the past decades. While it provides organizations and their employees a variety of benefits, there is also a growing perception that technological advancements (e.g., the evolution from telephone to smartphone) in the workplace may have a negative impact on employees' mental health. Using a diary approach, we examined the direct effect of workplace telepressure during off-job hours on psychological detachment from work and the potential mediating role of work-related smartphone use during off-job hours in this relation. In addition, employees' individual differences in empathy was proposed to act as a cross-level moderator of the relation between workplace telepressure and work-related smartphone use. A sample of 80 employees, representing a wide range of occupations and organizations, completed a daily survey on five successive workdays (N = 337-400 day-level observations). Results of multilevel analyses yielded no direct effect of workplace telepressure on psychological detachment on a day-to-day basis. Yet, the results supported a negative indirect effect of daily workplace telepressure during off-job hours on daily psychological detachment, mediated via daily work-related smartphone use during off-job hours. Additionally, the relation between workplace telepressure and work-related smartphone use was not strengthened by the affective component nor the cognitive component of other-oriented empathy. Our study highlights the importance of a clear organizational policy regarding work-related smartphone use during off-job hours and provides valuable input for strategies aiming to ameliorate employees' psychological detachment and proper smartphone use.","78":"The application of time limits (i.e. restricting the amount of sessions before the beginning of psychotherapy) has become ingrained in psychotherapy research and in the context of managed care, mostly due to pragmatic and economic reasons. However, little is know on how this technique interferes with the psychotherapeutic process. Although several theorists have considered the possible advantages and drawbacks of the technique, research explaining these mechanisms is scattered. By conducting this review, we strived to answer two questions: (1) Does a time limit alter the psychotherapeutic process? And (2) In what way? In doing so, this study aspires to grant more insight into the mechanisms of time limited psychotherapy and aimes to contribute to a first understanding of the dynamics of a time restricted therapy process. We searched for articles in the databases of Web of Science and Pubmed. Our review identified 28 studies that provide empirical grounds to explain processes involved when applying a time limit to psychotherapy. Qualitative research suggests that a time limit exerts pressure on the therapy process and creates an expectancy effect, which can have both positive and negative consequences. Additionally, time limits can be associated to therapists taking on a more directive role in therapy. Results show that a time limit is anything but a neutral intervention; it is a technique that complexly interacts with therapy processes on multiple grounds. Further research is vital to determine which environment is appropriate for its application.","79":"This study explored the validity of an integrative framework for verbal and musical short-term memory (STM). Following this framework, access to domain-specific long-term knowledge bases supports the processing of musical and verbal item information in STM, while domain-general ordering processes support the representation of serial order information in the two domains. We exposed participants to verbal and musical STM tasks assessing either item information, order information, or both item and order information. Using an interindividual differences approach, we observed that performance in item-based STM tasks was not strongly associated between musical and verbal domains. In contrast, strong between-domain associations were observed for STM tasks assessing processing of verbal order and musical rhythm information. These preliminary results are overall in agreement with an integrative approach of verbal and musical STM. At the same time, the results highlight the difficulty of measuring serial order processing in the musical STM domain in a direct and specific manner.","80":"The attachment-based perspective on teacher-student relationships assumes that teachers internalize experiences with specific students into mental representations of dyadic relationships. Once activated, mental representations are believed to influence teachers' affective and cognitive social information processing. Two priming experiments with 57 elementary school teachers were conducted to test these assumptions. To activate teachers' mental representations of dyadic relationships, teachers were primed with photographs of students with whom they have a positive and negative relationship (two experimental conditions) as well as with photographs of students with whom they have a distant relationship and unknown students (two control conditions). Teachers' responses in two different experiments -an emotion categorization task and a vignette task -were analyzed to measure differences between conditions. Mixed evidence was found for the idea that teachers' mental representations of dyadic relationships impact their affective and cognitive information processing.","81":"Binge drinking is a widespread alcohol consumption pattern in youth that is linked to important behavioral and cerebral impairments, in both the short and the long term. From a critical review of the current literature on this topic, we conclude that binge drinkers display executive impairments, cerebral modifications, and problems with emotion-related processes. Five key empirical and theoretical topics are discussed to pave the way for future research in the field: (1) the specificity of the brain modifications observed in binge drinkers that may index a compensatory mechanism or result from multiple withdrawals; (2) the nature of the relationship between binge drinking and impairments, suggesting reciprocal influences between excessive alcohol consumption and executive deficits; (3) the possible recovery of brain and cognitive functioning after the cessation of binge drinking; (4) the validity of the continuum hypothesis, suggesting links between binge drinking and severe alcohol use disorders; and (5) the existing strategies to reduce binge drinking habits or rehabilitate the associated cognitive deficits. Future perspectives are described in relation to the questions raised to identify the crucial variables to be addressed in research and clinical practice.","82":"Emotions and self-esteem are critical components of well-being and adaptation during adolescence. People differ in their average levels of affect and self-esteem, as well as in how much their affect and self-esteem fluctuate from moment to moment. Fluctuations in affect in particular have not been extensively examined in relation to adolescent-relevant variables. The present study investigates internalizing symptoms, social functioning, and overt and relational aggression as correlates of average levels and within-person variability in daily positive and negative affect (PA and NA) and self-esteem. Crucially, unique association were examined controlling for the other variables. Early adolescents (mean age 10.8 years, N = 94) completed daily diaries across four days on PA, NA, and self-esteem. They also completed general questionnaires, as did peers. Some key findings were that more internalizing symptoms were significantly associated with more variability in NA. The importance of peer relationships for adolescents' daily mean levels of PA and NA were shown. Peer-perceived social functioning was associated with less fluctuations in self-esteem. Some unexpected, non-significant, findings for aggression appeared. Finally, higher mean NA were associated with more NA fluctuations, whereas higher mean PA and self-esteem were associated with less fluctuations.","83":"Visibility management (VM) refers to the regulation of disclosure of one's sexual orientation for the purposes of maintaining privacy as well as minimizing stigma, harm, or marginalization. Research on how lesbian women and gay men (LGs) manage the visibility of their sexual orientation in the workplace is scarce. In this study, we tested a model that investigates the relationships between VM on the one hand, and specific job characteristics, experiencing the work environment as more or less LG friendly, and personal homonegative experiences on the other. In a non-representative sample of 4,080 employees of the Flemish government, 6.3% identified as gay or lesbian. Within this LG subsample (N = 265) we found that specific job characteristics (having a managerial position, or having a tenured or non-tenured position) were not associated with VM. Knowing other LGs within the work environment who are open about their sexual orientation was associated with being more likely to apply open VM strategies, as was perceiving the atmosphere at work as permissive towards LGs. Having witnessed negative events towards LGs at work was associated with taking the characteristics of a social setting (e.g., public or private) into account when deciding to disclose one's sexual orientation. Finally, participants who experienced homonegative events (such as unsolicited sexual innuendo or abusive language) felt less inhibited about disclosure. Potential theoretical as well as practical implications are discussed.","84":"The purpose of this study was to provide normative data for a Flemish version of the Buschke Selective Reminding Test (SRT). The SRT allows for the simultaneous analysis of several components of verbal memory, such as short and long term retrieval. The Flemish SRT was administered to 3257 neurologically healthy adults (1627 men and 1630 women, age range = 18-94 years). Effects of age, sex and education on SRT performance were assessed. Results indicate that SRT performance decreased with age and that this decline accelerated in men compared to women. Furthermore, an effect of education was found favoring participants who completed a higher education. Normative data quantified through percentile ranks and stratified by age, sex and education level are provided.","85":"The article presents the hypothesis that in the formation of judgements about a man's biological fatherhood based on similarity of physical characteristics, people may take into consideration not only the similarity of father to child, but also of mother to child. The objective of the experiment was to conduct an initial investigation of that assumption. In the experiment, participants were presented with descriptions in which information was manipulated concerning the similarity of child to mother vs. to father vs. to neither of them. A total of 312 students of both sexes took participation in the experiment, having agreed to take part in a short psychological study immediately after classes were over. They were asked to read some short stories and to give their opinion as to whether the man described is the biological father of the child. It turned out that in conditions where the child's appearance was dissimilar to both of the parents, the participants doubted the biological parenthood of the father. In conditions where the child was similar to the mother, the certainty of participants that the man was the biological father was as high as in conditions where the story indicated that the child was similar to him. The results thus suggest that information about a child's similarity to its mother may, in some situations, be significant in the formulation of judgements on the biological fatherhood of a man.","86":null,"87":"Neurocognitive models of attentional bias for threat posit that attentional bias may result from a decreased activation of the left prefrontal cortex, and especially of its dorsolateral part (dlPFC), resulting in an impaired attention control. Consequently, a transient increase of neural activity within the left dlPFC via non-invasive brain stimulation reduces attentional bias among both anxious and nonanxious participants. Yet, it is still unclear whether the impact of dlPFC activation on attentional bias is mediated by improvement in attention control. In this experiment, we sought to test this hypothesis in an unselected sample (n = 20). Accordingly, we adopted a double-blind within-subject protocol in which we delivered a single-session of anodal versus sham transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) over the left dlPFC during the completion of a task assessing attention control. We also assessed its subsequent impact on attentional bias. Neither attention control nor attentional bias did significantly improve following anodal tDCS. Although our results do not support our main hypothesis, we believe the present null results to be particularly useful for future meta-research in the field. We also formulated a series of methodological recommendations for future research aiming at testing the tDCS-induced modification of attentional bias.","88":"Situational interest (SI) has been conceptualized in physical education (PE) as a multidimensional construct including five dimensions: instant enjoyment, exploration intention, attention demand, novelty and challenge. Consistent with Ding, Sun and Chen (2013), who argued for the need 'to develop cross-culture models to examine the universality of the motivation constructs', the purpose of this study was to investigate the universality and uniqueness of students' SI by comparing three French-speaking PE contexts. Participants were 1812 secondary school students from Belgium, France, and Switzerland. They responded to the French 15-item SI scale and the Total Interest scale (Roure, Pasco &amp; Kermarrec, 2016) after practicing learning tasks in regular PE lessons. The relationships between the SI dimensions and total interest were compared between the three samples using correlation and regression analyses. A multivariate analysis of variance was also used to compare SI scores between the contexts. The results revealed that instant enjoyment and exploration intention were the two major motivating dimensions, highlighting the universality of students' SI, whereas challenge and novelty revealed the uniqueness of this construct explored.","89":"Empirical evidence for the capacity to detect conflict between biased reasoning and normative principles has led to the proposal that reasoners have an intuitive grasp of some basic logical principles. In two studies, we investigate the boundary conditions of these logical intuitions by manipulating the logical complexity of problems where logical validity and conclusion believability conflict or not. Results pointed to evidence for successful conflict detection on the basic Modus Ponens (MP) inference, but also showed evidence for such a phenomenon on the more complex Modus Tollens (MT) inference. This suggests that both the MP and the MT inferences are simple enough for reasoners to have an intuitive grasp of their logical structure. The boundaries of logical intuition might thus reside in problems of greater complexity than these inferences. We also observed that on the invalid Affirmation of the Consequent (AC) and Denial of the Antecedent (DA) inferences, participants showed higher accuracy on the inference that was expected to be more complex (DA), and no evidence for successful conflict detection was found on these forms. Implications for the logical intuition framework are discussed.","90":"The present study aimed to explore the interrelations between support processes, adjustment, and psychological distress within a sample of help-seeking expatriates. Specifically, we examined (1) the association between expatriates' cross-cultural adjustment (i.e., work, interaction and general adjustment) and levels of psychological distress (i.e., depression, anxiety and stress), (2) the association between expatriates' perceptions of socioemotional and instrumental support availability and their level of cross-cultural adjustment, and (3) the moderating role of expatriates' socioemotional and instrumental support needs in the latter association. Findings showed that lower levels of expatriates' work adjustment were associated with higher levels of psychological distress. Further, perceived availability of socioemotional support was positively linked to expatriates' interaction and work adjustment. Finally, instrumental support needs moderated the relationship between instrumental support availability and general adjustment such that higher levels of instrumental support availability were associated with better general adjustment, but only for expatriates reporting high needs for instrumental support. Our study represents a novel contribution to the expatriate literature by shedding light on expatriates' vulnerability for psychological distress and understanding the type of social support that is considered most beneficial for help-seeking expatriates. Suggestions are made for clinical interventions for expatriates in need of support.","91":"The complex phenomenon of psychotherapy outcome requires further conceptual and methodological developments that facilitate clinically meaningful research findings. In this study, we rely on an idiosyncratic and process-oriented understanding of treatment effects in order to investigate long-term outcome. A conceptual model of long-term outcome is presented that comprises both a taxonomy of change and explanatory factors. A mixed methods naturalistic study was conducted in an inpatient psychotherapy setting. Long-term quantitative outcome data are complemented with a data-driven thematic analysis of interviews with 22 participants, five to six years after ending inpatient psychotherapy. Long-term outcome findings show improved well-being for the majority of former patients and this until five to six years after treatment. From the patients' perspectives, long-term changes can be situated on different interrelated existential levels: reconnection to others and (the meaning of) life, a revelation, an altered self, life changes, and altered expectations and ideas about recovery and treatment. The complex interplay of the person, the therapy centre, the outside world and the evolution over time helped explain the experienced changes and individual differences. The findings support the value of an idiosyncratic and process-oriented understanding of outcome and recovery as well as substantiate the importance of multiple methods and perspectives when studying the effects of psychotherapy. ","92":"Moral judgements are crucial for social life and rely on the analysis of the agent's intention and the outcome of the agent's action. The current study examines to the influence of how the information is presented on moral judgement. The first experiment investigated the effects of the order in which intention and outcome information was presented. The results showed that participants relied more on the last presented information, suggesting a recency effect. The second experiment required participants to make two types of judgments (wrongness vs. punishment) and manipulated the order of the requested two types of judgments. Results showed an asymmetrical transfer effect whereby punishment judgements, but not wrongness judgements were affected by the order of presentation. This asymmetrical transfer effect was likely linked to the ambiguity of the punishment judgement. Altogether, the study showed that the order in which information was presented and the order in which one was asked to think about the wrongness of an action or the punishment that the action deserves were two factors that should be irrelevant, but actually influenced moral judgements. The influence of these factors was mostly observed during the most difficult judgements, precisely in situations where human decision is called upon, such as in court trials.","93":"Non-suicidal self-injury (NSSI) and borderline personality disorder (BPD) features are common in patients with eating disorders (ED), yet little is known regarding the clinical presentation of ED patients who present with NSSI with and without BPD. The current study compared self-injurious, female ED inpatients with (n = 98; NSSI+BPD) and without BPD (n = 45; NSSI-only) on different self-reported clinical features. Results suggest that ED patients with NSSI+BPD differ from those with NSSI-only with regard to frequency of suicidal ideation, alcohol, drug or medication abuse, internalizing\/externalizing psychopathology, interpersonal problems, and coping strategies, with the NSSI+BPD group demonstrating more impairment in each of these domains. Despite these differences in clinical presentation, however, groups did not differ in NSSI features. In sum, while self-injurious ED patients may present with similar NSSI behavior regardless of BPD diagnosis, those with NSS+BPD represent a group with much higher clinical complexity and greater treatment needs.","94":"Various factors may contribute to the emergence of externalizing behavior (EB) problems in the preschool period. At the child level, temperament and executive function (EF) seem to play an important role, as well as environmental variables such as household chaos. In this study, we examined the profiles of 49 EB preschoolers compared to 49 typically developing (TD) preschoolers matched on age and gender. To evaluate the behavioral aspect of EB, we asked teachers and parents to fill out questionnaires, but we also used an observational paradigm. We assessed executive functions using attention, inhibition, flexibility and working memory tests. Finally, we used questionnaires to assess household chaos and child temperament. Results showed that children rated by parents as presenting EB were also assessed so by teachers and exhibited more agitation in our observational paradigm. As expected, EB children also presented weaker performance than the TD children in all EF tasks, except those measuring attention, and showed a larger reaction-time variability. Parents of the EB group reported a more chaotic environment at home. Finally, we found that child temperament (i.e., emotionality) also plays a role in group belonging. This study shows that EB children already exhibit specific characteristics by the time they are of preschool age, not only in the behavioral sphere, but also in the cognitive and environmental areas. However, despite all the differences between the two groups, a discriminant analysis showed that EF capacities have a weak power for EB diagnosis.","95":"This manuscript is part of a special issue to commemorate professor Paul Eelen, who passed away on August 21, 2016. Paul was a clinically oriented scientist, for whom learning principles (Pavlovian or operant) were more than salivary responses and lever presses. His expertise in learning psychology and his enthusiasm to translate this knowledge to clinical practice inspired many inside and outside academia. Several of his original writings were in the Dutch language. Instead of editing a special issue with contributions of colleagues and friends, we decided to translate a selection of his manuscripts to English to allow wide access to his original insights and opinions. Even though the manuscripts were written more than two decades ago, their content is surprisingly contemporary. This introductory article presents a reflection on Paul's career and legacy and introduces the selected manuscripts that are part of this special issue.","96":"This manuscript is part of a special issue to commemorate professor Paul Eelen, who passed away on August 21, 2016. Paul was a clinically oriented scientist, for whom learning principles (Pavlovian or operant) were more than salivary responses and lever presses. His expertise in learning psychology and his enthusiasm to translate this knowledge to clinical practice inspired many inside and outside academia. Several of his original writings were in the Dutch language. Instead of editing a special issue with contributions of colleagues and friends, we decided to translate a selection of his manuscripts to English to allow wide access to his original insights and opinions. Even though the manuscripts were written more than two decades ago, their content is surprisingly contemporary. The present manuscript was originally published as part of a Liber Amicorum for Paul Eelen's own supervisor, prof. Joseph Nuttin. In this chapter, Paul Eelen presents a modern view on Pavlovian learning. It appeared in 1980, at the heyday of cognitive psychology which initially dismissed conditioning. Paul Eelen's perseverance in presenting learning principles as key to study human behaviour has proven correct and ahead of time. First published as: Eelen, P. (1980). Klassieke conditionering: Klassiek en toch modern. In Liber Amicorum, Prof. J. R. Nuttin, Gedrag, dynamische relatie en betekeniswereld (pp. 321-343). Leuven: Universitaire Pers Leuven.","97":"This manuscript is part of a special issue to commemorate professor Paul Eelen, who passed away on August 21, 2016. Paul was a clinically oriented scientist, for whom learning principles (Pavlovian or operant) were more than salivary responses and lever presses. His expertise in learning psychology and his enthusiasm to translate this knowledge to clinical practice inspired many inside and outside academia. Several of his original writings were in the Dutch language. Instead of editing a special issue with contributions of colleagues and friends, we decided to translate a selection of his manuscripts to English to allow wide access to his original insights and opinions. Even though the manuscripts were written more than two decades ago, their content is surprisingly contemporary. This manuscript is a transcription of a lecture that was published in 1980. It was Paul Eelen's first public presentation after a two-year study in the United States, which has inspired much of his later thinking. The text can be viewed as a manifesto for behaviour therapy as it was then advancing in Belgium and the Netherlands. This presentation was given as the introduction to the L.A.P.P. seminar day held October 27, 1980, which was themed: Behaviour modification. The lecture was published as: Eelen, P. (1980). Gedragstherapie en gedragsmodificatie: Achtergronden. Leuvens Bulletin L. A. P. P., 39, 1-19.","98":"This manuscript is part of a special issue to commemorate professor Paul Eelen, who passed away on August 21, 2016. Paul was a clinically oriented scientist, for whom learning principles (Pavlovian or operant) were more than salivary responses and lever presses. His expertise in learning psychology and his enthusiasm to translate this knowledge to clinical practice inspired many inside and outside academia. Several of his original writings were in the Dutch language. Instead of editing a special issue with contributions of colleagues and friends, we decided to translate a selection of his manuscripts to English to allow wide access to his original insights and opinions. Even though the manuscripts were written more than two decades ago, their content is surprisingly contemporary. This manuscript was originally published in 1989 as part of an edited book on the therapeutic relation. In this chapter, Paul Eelen takes a critical position against the dominance of the client-centered approach. He presents the therapeutic relation as a behavioural interaction between the patient and his therapist which is subject to laws of learning. This is exemplified by an in-depth analysis of the therapist as a conditioned stimulus. First published as: Eelen, P., Depreeuw, E., &amp; Van den Bergh, O. (1989). De therapeut als geconditioneerde stimulus. In H. Vertommen, G. Cluckers, &amp; G. Lietaer (Eds.), De relatie in therapie (pp. 147-165). Leuven: Universitaire Pers Leuven.","99":"This manuscript is part of a special issue to commemorate professor Paul Eelen, who passed away on August 21, 2016. Paul was a clinically oriented scientist, for whom learning principles (Pavlovian or operant) were more than salivary responses and lever presses. His expertise in learning psychology and his enthusiasm to translate this knowledge to clinical practice inspired many inside and outside academia. Several of his original writings were in the Dutch language. Instead of editing a special issue with contributions of colleagues and friends, we decided to translate a selection of his manuscripts to English to allow wide access to his original insights and opinions. Even though the manuscripts were written more than two decades ago, their content is surprisingly contemporary. This manuscript was originally published in 1992 and discusses functional analysis as the Achilles heel of cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT). Functional analysis is that part of CBT where insight in learning principles feeds into clinical case conceptualisation. Even though functional analysis was self-evident for first generation behaviour therapists, its importance has been overlooked since long. It is striking to see how modern CBT-approaches again incorporate functional assessment. First published as: Eelen, P., &amp; Van den Bergh, O. (1992). De gebroken achillespees van de gedragstherapie: enkele bedenkingen bij de functieanalyse. Psychotherapeutisch Paspoort, 2, 25-34.","100":"This manuscript is part of a special issue to commemorate professor Paul Eelen, who passed away on August 21, 2016. Paul was a clinically oriented scientist, for whom learning principles (Pavlovian or operant) were more than salivary responses and lever presses. His expertise in learning psychology and his enthusiasm to translate this knowledge to clinical practice inspired many inside and outside academia. Several of his original writings were in the Dutch language. Instead of editing a special issue with contributions of colleagues and friends, we decided to translate a selection of his manuscripts to English to allow wide access to his original insights and opinions. Even though the manuscripts were written more than two decades ago, their content is surprisingly contemporary. The present manuscript presents a translation of an interview with Paul Eelen by the University of Leuven student magazine Veto. First published as: Wetenschap en maatschappij deel vijf: de psycholoog Paul Eelen. \"Geen enkele voetballer zal geloven dat hij gedetermineerd is door de bal\". Interview in Veto Magazine, April 3 2000, 26, pp. 8-9. Interviewed by: Diederik Vandendriessche and Yves Dejaegere.","101":"The Monty Hall dilemma (MHD) is a difficult brain teaser. We present a systematic review of literature published between January 2000 and February 2018 addressing why humans systematically fail to react optimally to the MHD or fail to understand it. Based on a sequential analysis of the phases in the MHD, we first review causes in each of these phases that may prohibit humans to react optimally and to fully understand the problem. Next, we address the question whether humans' performance, in terms of choice behaviour and (probability) understanding, can be improved. Finally, we discuss individual differences related to people's suboptimal performance. This review provides novel insights by means of its holistic approach of the MHD: At each phase, there are reasons to expect that people respond suboptimally. Given that the occurrence of only one cause is sufficient, it is not surprising that suboptimal responses are so widespread and people rarely understand the MHD.","102":"Bilingual advantages in executive functions are well documented (see Bialystok, 2009; Dong &amp; Li, 2015, for a review), but the specific aspects of bilingualism that underlie these advantages are unclear. The few studies conducted up until now on this subject (e.g., Hartanto &amp; Yang, 2016; Prior &amp; Gollan, 2011; Verreyt, Woumans, Vandelanotte, Szmalec, &amp; Duyck, 2016) have suggested that the frequency of language switching may partially mediate this advantage. We further investigate the impact of oral language-switching frequency on the development of alerting, response inhibition and cognitive flexibility skills in proficient bilinguals. Two groups of proficient bilingual adults (21 low-frequency language switchers and 21 high-frequency language switchers), matched for age, gender, second-language proficiency and socio-cultural status, participated in the study. Tasks assessing alerting, response inhibition and cognitive flexibility were administered. Our results revealed that high-frequency language switchers responded more quickly in the task assessing cognitive flexibility. No group effect was found on the tasks assessing alerting and response inhibition. These results suggest that language-switching frequency is likely an underlying factor in the enhanced cognitive flexibility of proficient bilinguals.","103":"Conditional regard refers to regard dependent upon the receiver's fulfillment of certain expectations. Using an experimental design, we examined the effect of conditional negative and positive regard on well-being and eagerness to learn in university freshmen (N = 131). Participants experienced either failure or success followed by conditional vs. unconditional regard. As expected, success and failure had opposite effects on well-being and eagerness to learn. More importantly, there was an increase in positive affect following success in the context of conditional regard, but not in the context of unconditional regard. Additionally, the decrease in positive affect following failure was more pronounced when accompanied by conditional as compared to unconditional regard. Conditional regard thus magnified the impact of success versus failure on students' emotional experiences.","104":"Self-report instruments that allow to characterize the frequency of daily memory failures are essential for a comprehensive assessment of memory functioning. In this context, we aimed to provide preliminary evidence of validity and reliability for the European Portuguese adaptation of the Prospective and Retrospective Memory Questionnaire (PRMQ). A total of 1052 healthy participants completed an online survey with the PRMQ. The exploration of the construct validity suggested the tripartite model with a general memory, a prospective memory, and a retrospective memory factors to have the best adjustment to the data. Measurement invariance across age and sex groups was also verified. The questionnaire revealed good convergent validity with a general self-report measure of memory (0.778 &lt; r &lt; 0.853), and satisfactory values of internal consistency (0.779 &lt; Cronbach's alpha &lt; 0.887) and of test-retest reliability (0.815 &lt; r &lt; 0.852). There were no prominent effects of sex and age in the PRMQ scores. Although the sample encompassed mainly younger and highly educated adults, this study presented the first evidence of validity and reliability for the European Portuguese version of the questionnaire.","105":"First year experience in higher education has been extensively investigated in the literature. Yet, two limitations can be identified out of the literature. The majority of the studies focused on single factor analysis, restraining the multifactorial understanding of adjustment's determinants. Moreover, the temporal unfolding of the first year at the university has mainly been disregarded, limiting the dynamic framing of adjustment process. To overcome these limitations, the current study used a longitudinal qualitative design in order to grasp the dynamic complexity of adjustment process. Semi-structured interviews were conducted in two steps with 17 freshmen from Science department. The aims were to unfold the constructs at play in student's adjustment process and the dynamic interplay between them over time. The analyses were grounded into Nicholson's theoretical framework of transition cycle and the material was analyzed through thematic and sequential analysis. Four themes (readiness, reaching personal drives, fighting an overwhelming program and becoming a self-regulated learner) and four different events (starting up, click, exhaustion and deficiencies accumulation) were identified in the material disclosing the dynamic nature of adjustment process. An overall reflection on the findings is proposed in the conclusion.","106":"Improving people's life satisfaction has become an important goal for many individuals and societies. In this study we investigate how grit influences life satisfaction. We propose that individuals' self-esteem mediates the relationship between grit and life satisfaction. Study 1, with a sample of 243 employees enrolled in a business training course, found that an individual's grit was positively related to life satisfaction and that self-esteem fully mediated this relationship. In Study 2, with 218 full-time employees, self-efficacy, self-control, and self-consciousness were included as mediators, but they did not exceed the power of self-esteem in explaining the relationship between grit and life satisfaction. Implications, limitations and future research directions are discussed.","107":"The Young Schema Questionnaire (YSQ, Young, 1994) was developed to assess Early Maladaptive Schemas (EMS), which account for the dysfunctional beliefs in individuals with personality disorders or maladaptive personality traits. This study aims to investigate the factor structure, the reliability and the validity of the original YSQ - Short Form (Young &amp; Brown, 1998; YSQ-SF, 15 EMS) as well as an extension including 16 EMS, based on the 16 factor structure of the YSQL2 (Young &amp; Brown, 1998) in a community sample. The sample consisted of 672 participants (51% females; M age-total = 44.34; SD age-total = 16.24). Results show evidence for both the 15 and 16 factor solution of the YSQ-SF with good internal consistency coefficients for the different scales. Significant gender differences were observed for Self-Sacrifice (females higher) and Entitlement (men higher), along with different patterns of correlations between age and Insufficient Self-Control (r = -.19), Enmeshment (r = -0.16) and Self-Sacrifice (r = .13). Furthermore, Big Five personality traits were significantly associated with several schema scales. In sum, we can conclude that both the YSQ-SF15 and 16 are valid instruments to assess EMS among a Flemish community sample. However, given the unique additive value of the 16th EMS (Social Undesirability) in predicting lower scores on Extraversion and Openness, the use of the YSQ-SF16 could be favored.","108":"","109":"In Flanders the term flandrien refers to cyclists who display a strong work ethic, great perseverance, are powerful and who perform best in adverse weather conditions. Until the 1960s, only leading cyclists originating from the province of West- and East-Flanders were considered as flandriens. After 1960, the media extended the use of this term to Belgian cyclists in general and even to international cyclists. The present study examined whether Flemish citizens agree with this generalization considering that the term flandrien still plays a highly symbolical role in the public discourse on Flemish identity. First, the main aim was to investigate whether having an ethno-cultural identity representation of the Flemish identity is positively related to perceived regional exclusivity of the term flandrien. Second, this study explored whether Flemish identification moderates this relation (i.e. this relation is only expected for high identifiers) and also predicts Flemings' regional exclusivity of the term. Results revealed that the more Flemings endorse an ethno-cultural identity representation the more they consider a flandrien as an exclusively Flemish cyclist, and the less they will include international cyclists in their consideration of a flandrien. Flemish identification did not moderate this relation but did predict the consideration of a flandrien as a Flemish cyclist. These findings indicate that the current interpretation of the historical cycling term flandrien is influenced by cultural conceptualizations of Flemish identity.","110":"Loneliness and attitude towards aloneness have been shown to be associated to depression, anxiety, and other psychiatric disorders in adolescents and they may also increase the vulnerability to Non-Suicidal Self-Injury (NSSI). Therefore, the present study investigated the association between lifetime prevalence and functions of NSSI, parent- and peer-related loneliness, and attitude towards aloneness (positive and negative). Data regarding NSSI, loneliness, and attitude towards aloneness were collected from a sample of 401 high school students from three different high schools located in the Dutch-speaking part of Belgium. Lifetime prevalence of NSSI was found to be 16.5%. Females reported a higher lifetime prevalence of NSSI than males. Higher mean scores for parent-, peer-related loneliness, and positive attitude (i.e., affinity) towards aloneness was observed in adolescents with lifetime NSSI as compared to adolescents without a history of NSSI. Finally, a positive correlation between self-related (i.e., automatic) functions of NSSI and parent- and peer-related loneliness and a positive attitude towards aloneness was also observed.","111":"[This corrects the article on p. 32 in vol. 57.].","112":"The present study verifies the psychometric properties of the Slovak version of the Self-Compassion Scale through item response theory, factor-analysis, validity analyses and norm development. The surveyed sample consisted of 1,181 participants (34% men and 66% women) with a mean age of 30.30 years (SD = 12.40). Two general factors (Self-compassionate responding and Self-uncompassionate responding) were identified, whereas there was no support for a single general factor of the scale and six subscales. The results of the factor analysis were supported by an independent sample of 676 participants. Therefore, the use of total score for the whole scale would be inappropriate. In Slovak language the Self-Compassion Scale should be used in the form of two general subscales (Self-compassionate responding and Self-uncompassionate responding). In line with our theoretical assumptions, we obtained relatively high Spearman's correlation coefficients between the Self-Compassion Scale and related external variables, demonstrating construct validity for the scale. To sum up, the Slovak translation of The Self-Compassion Scale is a reliable and valid instrument that measures Self-compassionate responding and Self-uncompassionate responding.","113":"Innovation is considered to be of crucial importance for organisational survival and growth, and in this respect employees play a leading role, as they are the ones who develop innovative ideas. At the same time, the struggle for organisational survival and growth gives rise to perceptions of job insecurity. To date, few studies have explored how employees' innovative work behaviour (IWB) is influenced by the perceived threat of job loss (i.e. job insecurity). As both job insecurity and IWB are increasingly salient in light of organisational change and competition, the present study examines the relationship between job insecurity and IWB, as well as the role of psychological contract breach in explaining this relationship. We hypothesized a negative relation between job insecurity and innovative work behaviour, with psychological contract breach as a mediator in this relationship. Participants were 190 employees from an industrial organisation that had faced restructuring and downsizing for several years. Contrary to our predictions, no direct association was found between job insecurity and the two sub-dimensions of innovative work behaviour (i.e., idea generation and idea implementation). Indirect relationships, however, were found between job insecurity and the two types of IWB through psychological contract breach. Surprisingly, psychological contract breach was positively related to idea generation and idea implementation. These findings shed new light on the relationship between job insecurity and IWB.","114":"Body dissatisfaction (i.e., a negative attitude towards one's own physical appearance) is assumed to originate from a perceived discrepancy between the actual physical appearance (i.e., actual body image) and the desired ideal state of the body (i.e., ideal body image). We assessed implicit beliefs about these two aspects of the body image independently using two Relational Responding Tasks (RRT) in a sample of participants who were either low or high in explicitly reported body dissatisfaction. As hypothesized, differences in body dissatisfaction exerted a differential influence on the two RRT scores. The implicit belief that one is thin was less pronounced in participants who were strongly dissatisfied with their body relative to participants who were more satisfied with their body. The implicit desire to be thin (i.e., thin ideal body image), in contrast, tended to be more pronounced in participants who exhibited a high degree of body dissatisfaction as compared to participants who exhibited a low degree of body dissatisfaction. Hierarchical regression analyses also revealed that the RRT scores were predictive of self-reported body dissatisfaction, even over and above the predictive validity of some (but not all) explicit predictors of body dissatisfaction that were included in the present study. More generally, these findings contribute to the empirical validation of the RRT as a measure of implicit beliefs in the context of body dissatisfaction.","115":"Testifying to the gap in fundamental research on positive intergroup outcomes, we investigated reconciliation attitudes in a non-violent intergroup context (i.e., the linguistic conflict in Belgium). By incorporating both important predictors of negative outgroup attitudes (i.e., individual differences in rigid cognitive styles and authoritarian ideologies), and important predictors of reconciliation (i.e., intergroup emotions), we aimed to contribute to a more comprehensive theoretical framework for the analysis of intergroup relations. We recruited one Flemish (N = 310) and one Walloon (N = 365) undergraduate students sample to test the proposed model. Structural equation analyses with maximum likelihood estimation were conducted using the Lavaan package. In both samples, similar patterns were found. More in particular, the need for cognitive closure appeared to be the basic predictor of right-wing attitudes (i.e., right-wing authoritarianism and social dominance orientation) and essentialist thinking, which were then associated with less outgroup empathy and trust, and more outgroup anger. Furthermore, outgroup trust and empathy were positively related to reconciliation. Interestingly, some differences between the Flemish and Walloon sample were found, such as the direct effects of need for closure and social dominance orientation in the first sample, and the non-significant effects of essentialism in the latter sample. Considering the ongoing public and political debate about the linguistic conflict in Belgium, these findings shed a new light on how individual differences relate to specific outgroup emotions, and how these are associated with important intergroup outcomes in the face of intergroup conflict.","116":"In this study we analyzed the opinions of citizens of the German-speaking minority in Belgium on the linguistic conflict between the Walloons and the Flemish, as well as their attitudes towards these linguistic communities. We were especially interested in the effects of identification with the local community and disidentification with Belgium. We distributed a survey questionnaire in Eupen, the capital of the German-speaking community, and received replies from 129 inhabitants. Results showed that identification with the German-speaking community was associated with positive attitudes towards the German-speaking community and with demands for more autonomy of the community within the federal Belgian state. Disidentification with Belgium was not positively correlated with these constructive and positive outcomes, but with negative perceptions of all three Belgian communities, the perception of strong conflicts among these communities, and demands for the separation of the Belgian federal state into independent regions. The results are in line with previous research on these processes and point to unique, positive aspects of a strong local identity.","117":"Collective victimhood is the belief that one's own group has been intentionally and undeservingly harmed by another group (Bar-Tal, Chernyak-Hai, Schori, &amp; Gundar, 2009). While previous research has established the link between collective victimhood and negative intergroup behaviors, the underlying mechanism is virtually unexplored. In the current study, we test the idea that intergroup emotions play an important role, particularly for those group members who are highly identified. Whereas previous research has primarily studied collective victimhood in violent contexts, the current study focuses on its role in the intergroup relations in Belgium, known as a non-violent conflict between French and Dutch speakers. The associations between collective victimhood, intergroup emotions, and action tendencies were studied in an online survey. The sample consisted of both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking Belgians (Ntotal = 1774). Structural equation modeling showed that collective victimhood was negatively related to intergroup affiliative emotions (i.e., sympathy) and positively to intergroup distancing emotions (i.e., anger). In addition, these relationships were stronger for participants who strongly identified with their ingroup. Furthermore, intergroup affiliative emotions positively predicted fostering contact with outgroup members, and negatively predicted the tendencies to exclude and take revenge on the outgroup; intergroup distancing emotions positively predicted outgroup exclusion and revenge, and negatively predicted fostering contact with them. The established associations were no different between the linguistic groups. Our results confirm that collective victimhood, and the emotions associated, can help to understand intergroup conflict in non-violent contexts, in addition to violent ones.","118":"This study attempts to shed light on the structure, the prevalence and the determinants of anti-Walloon attitudes in Flanders. For this purpose, we contrast anti-Walloon prejudice with prejudice against a relatively well-understood and archetypical out-group, namely immigrants. Our theoretical approach draws on insights from two paradigms of intergroup relations: the Group-Focused Enmity approach stressing that specific prejudices have a strong common denominator, and the Differentiated Threat model arguing that specific prejudices are contingent on the context of intergroup relations as well as the involved types of threat. To assess the (dis)similarities in anti-Walloon and anti-immigrant prejudice, we use the Flemish dataset of the Belgian National Election Study (BNES) 2010. Comparable measurement instruments for both forms of prejudice are analyzed by means of structural equation modeling. Our results reveal a nuanced picture regarding the similarities and differences between anti-Walloon and anti-immigrant attitudes in Flanders. One the one hand, anti-Walloon and anti-immigration attitudes are strongly correlated and rooted in economic threat perceptions. On the other hand, anti-Walloon attitudes are less outspoken in the Flemish population than anti-immigrant attitudes, are less founded on cultural threat perceptions and are more closely linked to feelings of identification with the Flemish in-group.","119":"We test two assumptions of the generalized prejudice literature. First, that the structure of generalized prejudice (i.e. how prejudices are interrelated) is dependent on the intergroup context. Second, that different types of prejudice have similar political consequences and run via the generalized prejudice component. We perform these tests in the two main regions of Belgium - Flanders and Wallonia - and investigate the influence of differences in the history of immigration, experience of the linguistic and autonomy conflict, and the separate party system and political discourse (i.e. the societal and intergroup context) on these premises. We make use of the Belgian Election Panel (BEP) data that included measures of prejudice toward multiple target groups (immigrants, Flemings, Walloons, homosexuals, and Jews) and voting propensities for the main political parties. Our results show that, regardless of the differences in intergroup experiences, the structure of prejudice is identical in Flanders and Wallonia. Flemings are, however, more tolerant toward homosexuals and immigrants than Walloons. The political context and the set of potential political outlets does play an important moderating role in the translation of prejudices to party preferences: While negative attitudes toward the other regional group seem to divide the electorate in Flanders, it does not affect voting intentions in Wallonia. Anti-immigrant prejudice is crucial in both regions, but affects voters in different ways at the right-side of the political spectrum.","120":"It is a known fact that some Belgians collaborated with the Nazi occupier during WWII. However, according to a popular myth, collaboration was widespread in Flanders, whereas Walloons bravely resisted. Of course, historical reality is much more nuanced, but this oversimplification has largely resurfaced in political debates surrounding the Belgian linguistic conflict. Demands for amnesty for former collaborators addressed by Flemish nationalist parties are a case in point. We conducted two studies in order to investigate Belgians' attitudes towards this political issue in the two linguistic communities. In 2012, a first survey (N = 521; 315 French-speakers (FS) and 206 Dutch-speakers (DS)) showed that WWII collaboration was morally condemned, and attitudes towards amnesty were predominantly negative, in both groups. However, DS tended to support amnesty more than FS. This effect of Linguistic Group on Support for Amnesty was mediated by Judgments of Morality of collaboration, and this mediation was moderated by Linguistic identification. In 2015, a second survey (N = 774; 476 FS and 298 DS) confirmed these results. Moreover, judgments about the Unfairness of the repression of collaboration also mediated the effect of Linguistic Group on Support for Amnesty. These results suggest that differences in political position-taking regarding the granting of amnesty between DS and FS are, at least partly, due to different attitudes towards collaboration and to the membership to a linguistic community.","121":"According to the \"Waffle\" model of the Belgian Linguistic Conflict (Klein et al., 2012), this conflict centres around two main dimensions: One concerns the use of language across the territory and the second concerns the distribution of resources between the two main linguistic communities, Dutch-speakers and French-speakers. The model suggests that the two groups adhere to different justice principles regarding these issues and that these disagreements are a function of the intensity of the conflict. With respect to the first dimension, Dutch-speakers are expected to adhere more to a principle of linguistic territoriality than French-speakers who should be more in favor of a free choice of one's idiom across the territory. With respect to the second dimension, the model posits that Dutch-speakers will adhere more to an equity principle whereas French-speakers should adhere more to a need principle. We tested these hypotheses in the context of a large-scale survey involving two waves: in May 2011 in the middle of a political crisis, and in June 2014, when the conflict was appeased. The pattern of \"disagreements\" in a subsample that participated in both waves of the survey (N = 378) is consistent with the Waffle model and, as expected, more severe at the heart of the conflict (in 2011) than after pacification (in 2014). However, differences were driven mostly by supporters of the Flemish nationalist party N-VA. Moreover, endorsement of principles on both dimensions are predictive of separatist attitudes in the Dutch-speaking sample whereas only the first dimension plays a role for the French speaking sample.","122":"","123":"In the present study, we set out to investigate whether and how central executive load constrains the strategies that children use during arithmetic processing. Using a dual-task paradigm accompanied by the choice\/no-choice method, we tested 233 children (115 6th graders, 118 4th graders). Results showed that the impact of central executive load on reaction times and accuracy scores related to strategy use increased with the magnitude of the demands of the central executive, with central executive load playing an important role in strategy use. Sixth graders performed better than 4th graders in the application of appropriate strategies. Children's adaptability with respect to strategy choice was affected by the type and magnitude of the central executive load; children showed better adaptability under the no-load condition and the inconsistent\/low load condition than under conditions with greater load. Grade level affected children's adaptability with respect to strategy choice, with 6th graders exhibiting significantly better performance than 4th graders. These results confirm that the development of central executive skills contributes to children's overall strategy use and adaptability. These findings have important implications for understanding the category specificity of central executive working memory in arithmetic cognition and the mechanisms of strategy development in childhood.","124":"Age discrimination at work can potentially affect every worker. Indeed, like 'old' workers, young ones hired in their first job elicit the idea that they have quite interesting social abilities but lack of competence, which constitutes a case of paternalistic stereotypes (Fiske, Cuddy, Glick, &amp; Xu, 2002). Generally, the negative (incompetence) facet of such stereotypes is not blatantly expressed, but is subtly conveyed behind an apparently positive discourse. Consequently, it is considered as being generally under-detected, while harmful. In this paper, we examine whether paternalistic stereotyping's under-detection is real or if it is due to the use of inadequate measures. Based on a study showing that targets feel that something is wrong (Dardenne, Dumont, &amp; Bollier 2007), we rely on affective measures to investigate whether the detection of the subtly conveyed negative facet of paternalistic stereotypes calls for subtle, implicit measures. In Study 1, explicit self-reports of targets' affective states after a meeting with a paternalistic boss revealed mainly positive affect. In Study 2, an implicit emotional measure however revealed the presence of a negative affective state. The last Study, using a more ecological affective measure, demonstrates that paternalistic stereotypes trigger an ambivalent affective reaction. Altogether, the three studies suggest that the negative facet of paternalistic stereotypes is not as under-detected as we thought.","125":"In an experiment conducted within the Milgram paradigm, it was examined whether obedience towards an authority would be reduced in conditions in which the teacher had grounds to fear revenge from the learner. A comparison was made of the behaviour of participants in classic conditions and in conditions in which they were told that following the first part of the experiment, there would be an alteration of roles: the teacher would become the learner. It turned out that the level of compliance was the same in both groups. The dominant behaviour, regardless of whether the participant expects a change of roles or not, is total obedience.","126":"Emotion regulation plays an important role in both healthy and problematic adolescent psychological functioning. Emotion regulation tendencies can be assessed with the Affective Style Questionnaire (ASQ; Hofmann &amp; Kashdan, 2010), but its validity in Dutch speaking adolescents has not been investigated so far. Two methods, namely traditional confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and the recently developed exploratory structural equations modeling (ESEM), were compared to examine the dimensional structure of the ASQ in a Flemish adolescent sample (N = 1,601). Although, as expected, the ESEM-model fit the data better than the CFA-model, the fit indices indicated that both models did not have an acceptable fit. With a shortened version of the ASQ, model fit improved substantially, but only the ESEM solution provided a good fit. The ESEM results support the use of the adapted ASQ to effectively assess the affective styles of concealing, adjusting and tolerating in Dutch-speaking adolescents.","127":"This study investigated the strategies which parents employ in order to mediate their adolescent child's internet use, thereby including the perspectives from the mother, the father and an adolescent child aged 13 to 18. Data from 357 families (n = 1071) were analyzed. Parental mediation strategies were inductively derived from a wide range of concrete mediation practices. Factor analysis yielded the same six factor solution for each informant, resulting in the identification of six distinct parental mediation strategies. Differences occurred between the three informants in terms of the quantity of mediation taking place. Parental mediation was predicted by the child's age, but less by the parents' age and the child's gender.","128":"Neuropsychological assessment is known to be influenced by expectancy effects, which can either enhance (placebo) or diminish (nocebo) cognitive performance. Research suggests that the response expectancy effect is influenced by various individual and situational factors and that the placebo effect results in an increase in monitoring processes as measured indirectly. However, the impact on monitoring processes has not yet been studied by direct measures such as Judgement Of Learning (JOL). This study aimed to investigate the response expectancy effect on various neuropsychological tasks, including a task that directly assesses monitoring capacities (JOL). In addition to determining which cognitive functions are influenced by the expectancy effect, this study examined the moderating role of the self-transcendence dimension of personality. Eighty healthy subjects were exposed to three bogus conditions presented as allegedly having a positive, negative, or no impact on cognitive capacities. Then they completed, in random order, three blocks of tasks (executive, attentional, and memory), one in each condition. Results showed an effect of negative instructions on flexibility (poorer performance) and memory (better performance) scores. Furthermore, positive instructions led to better explicit monitoring capacities (JOL) than the neutral condition. These effects were moderated by self-transcendence, as only participants with moderate or high self-transcendence exhibited these effects. Overall, our results showed that the response expectancy effect emerges from a combination of individual and cognitive factors.","129":"Is opposition to child euthanasia motivated only by ideology, or also by other personality characteristics and individual differences? In Belgium, the first country to legalize child euthanasia (in 2014), we investigated religious, moral, emotional, and cognitive factors underlying the (dis)approval of this legalization (N = 213). Disapproval was associated with religiousness, collectivistic morality (loyalty and purity), and prosocial dispositions, in terms of emotional empathy and behavioral generosity, but not values (care and fairness). It was also associated with low flexibility in existential issues and a high endorsement of slippery slope arguments, but not necessarily low openness to experience. A regression analysis showed that in addition to religiousness, low flexibility in existential issues and high empathy and generosity distinctly predicted opposition to child euthanasia. Whereas most of the findings parallel those previously reported for adult euthanasia, the role of prosocial inclinations in predicting moral opposition seems to be specific to child euthanasia.","130":"The Flemish Child Welfare System (CWS) is in great need of a shared empirically informed clinical strategy for working with depressed adolescents and their families. Many evidence-based practices (EBP) exist, but little is known as to whether they can be successfully imported in the CWS. Therefore, the current study explores the implementation of a particular EBP, Attachment-Based Family Therapy (ABFT), in home-based services of the Flemish CWS in Belgium. Specifically, the study focused on (1) the acceptability of ABFT by counselors and whether negative attitudes about EBP can be changed (n = 73 counselors), and (2) the feasibility of implementing ABFT (n = 43 adolescents, 11-17 years old, 72% female) by exploring initial effectiveness. The results suggest that (1) initial negative attitudes of counselors towards ABFT were significantly more positive after attending training and discussions about ABFT, and that (2) ABFT could be used by counselors to successfully reduce adolescent depressive symptoms. Future research should include a control group to draw stronger causal conclusions. Strengths and limitations of the study's design and implications for further dissemination are discussed.","131":"Identity formation constitutes a core developmental task during adolescence and emerging adulthood. However, it remains unclear how identity formation may vary across age, gender, and context (education vs. employment) in these developmental periods. The present study used a recently developed model to examine identity statuses or types in a sample of 7,906 Flemish individuals (14-30 years old; 64% female). As expected, achievement, foreclosure, moratorium, carefree diffusion, troubled diffusion, and an undifferentiated status emerged through cluster analysis. Women were overrepresented in the moratorium status (characterized by high exploration), whereas men were mainly situated in foreclosure and carefree diffusion statuses (both characterized by low exploration, but individuals in foreclosure having strong identity commitments as well). Individuals in the carefree and troubled diffusion statuses, which represent the least adaptive statuses, were youngest. High school students were overrepresented in the diffusion statuses and college students were mostly present in achievement (representing the most mature status) and moratorium. Finally, employed individuals were overrepresented in foreclosure, whereas unemployed individuals were mainly situated in troubled diffusion. In sum, the present study systematically examined relationships between empirically-identified identity statuses and socio-demographic variables in a large-scale sample, generating important information on age, gender, and contextual differences in identity.","132":"Multivariate studies have repeatedly confirmed that three basic dimensions of human emotional behavior, called pleasure (P), arousal (A) and dominance (D) are persistent in organizing human judgments for a wide range of perceptual and symbolic stimuli. The Mehrabian and Russell's PAD semantic differential scale is a well-established tool to measure these categories, but no standardized French translation is available for research. The aim of this study was to validate a French version of the PAD. For this purpose, (1) Mehrabian and Russell's PAD was translated through a process of translations and back-translations and (2) this French PAD was tested in a population of 111 French-speaking adults on 21 images of the International Affective Picture System (IAPS). A confirmatory factor analysis revealed the expected three-factor structure; the French PAD also distributed the images in the affective space according to the expected boomerang-shape. The present version of PAD is thus a valid French translation of Mehrabian and Russell's original PAD.","133":"The influence of (dis)belief in free will on prosocial behaviors and sense of control has attracted considerable interest over the last few years. The provision of relevant research tools to assess beliefs in free will and determinism for the community thus becomes a central endeavour. However, no relevant validated questionnaires are currently available to the French language community. Therefore, the present study was aimed at providing a valid French translation of the FAD-plus (Paulhus &amp; Carey, 2011), a questionnaire built to assess people's beliefs in Free will and Determinism. Exploratory factor analysis of the data obtained in Sample 1 revealed a four factor model. Confirmatory factor analyses on the basis of Sample 2 data were conducted to compare the theoretical model advanced by Paulhus and Carey's versus the model obtained in Sample 1. With only but a few modifications as compared to the original questionnaire, the questionnaire that we here propose appears to constitute a reliable tool for the French language community. We also examined the relationship between beliefs in free will, determinism and religious practices. We found that the more people are engaged in religious practices, the more they believe in determinism and in the inevitability of their future.","134":"Gray's Reinforcement Sensitivity Theory (RST) is a frequently used model of personality that is relevant to the period of adolescence. However, the psychometric properties of the most frequently used questionnaires to measure the RST-constructs, namely the Behavioural Inhibition System and Behavioural Activation System Scales (BIS\/BAS Scales) and the Sensitivity to Punishment and Sensitivity to Reward Questionnaire (SPSRQ), are rarely examined in samples of adolescents. Therefore, the goal of the present study was to examine the two-factor structure, reliability and convergent validity of the BIS\/BAS Scales and SPSRQ in a Flemish adolescent community sample. A sample of 579 adolescents (39.5% boys; 14-19 years) was recruited. The proposed two-factor structure was assessed using Exploratory Structural Equation Modeling. Reliability was evaluated using internal consistency and construct validity was examined with the correlations between the two questionnaires and with the Temperament and Character Inventory-short form (TCI-SF). After the removal of problematic items, and the addition of correlated errors, all indices indicated a good fit for the two-factor structure of the modified BIS\/BAS Scales. For the modified SPSRQ, three fit indices indicated a good model fit, while a fourth fit index was slightly below the cut-off score of an adequate model fit. Internal consistency of both questionnaires was sufficient. In general, the associations with scales of the TCI-SF were as expected, with positive correlations between BIS-related scales, and between BAS-related scales of all three instruments. In Flemish adolescents, the use of a two-factor model to analyze data gathered with the modified BIS\/BAS Scales or modified SPSRQ seems appropriate. ","135":"Three theoretical accounts have been put forward for the development of children's response patterns on number line estimation tasks: the log-to-linear representational shift, the two-linear-to-linear transformation and the proportion judgment account. These three accounts have not been contrasted, however, within one study, using one single criterion to determine which model provides the best fit. The present study contrasted these three accounts by examining first, second and sixth graders with a symbolic and non-symbolic number line estimation task (Experiment 1). In addition, first and second graders were tested again one year later (Experiment 2). In case of symbolic estimations, the proportion judgment account described the data best. Most young children's non-symbolic estimation patterns were best described by a logarithmic model (within the log-to-lin account), whereas those of most older children were best described by the simple power model (within the proportion judgment account).","136":"The current work examines the effect of trial-by-trial feedback about correct and error responding on performance in two basic cognitive tasks: a classic Stroop task (n = 40) and a color-word matching task (n = 30). Standard measures of both RT and accuracy were examined in addition to measures obtained from fitting the ex-Gaussian distributional model to the correct RTs. For both tasks, RTs were faster in blocks of trials with feedback than in blocks without feedback, but this difference was not significant. On the other hand, with respect to the distributional analyses, providing feedback served to significantly reduce the size of the tails of the RT distributions. Such results suggest that, for conditions in which accuracy is fairly high, the effect of corrective feedback might either be to reduce the tendency to double-check before responding or to decrease the amount of attentional lapsing.","137":"Investigating between-meal snack intake and its associated determinants such as emotions and stress presents challenges because both vary from moment to moment throughout the day. A smartphone application (app), was developed to map momentary between-meal snack intake and its associated determinants in the context of daily life. The aim of this study was to compare energy intake reported with the signal-contingent app and reported with an event-contingent paper and pencil diet diary. In a counterbalanced, cross-sectional design, adults (N = 46) from the general population reported between-meal snack intake during four consecutive days with the app and four consecutive days with a paper and pencil diet diary. A 10-day interval was applied between the two reporting periods. Multilevel regression analyses were conducted to compare both instruments on reported momentary and daily energy intake from snacks. Results showed no significant difference (B = 11.84, p = .14) in momentary energy intake from snacks between the two instruments. However, a significant difference (B = -105.89, p &lt; .01) was found on energy intake from total daily snack consumption. As at momentary level both instruments were comparable in assessing energy intake, research purposes will largely determine the sampling procedure of choice. When momentary associations across time are the interest of study, a signal-contingent sampling procedure may be a suitable method. Since the compared instruments differed on two main features (i.e. the sampling procedure and the device used) it is difficult to disentangle which instrument was the most accurate in assessing daily energy intake. ","138":"Using a multi-source field study design with 184 unique triads of employees-supervisor dyads, this paper examines whether servant leaders install a serving attitude among employees. That is, servant leaders aim to encourage employees to take responsibility, to cooperate and to create high quality interactions with each other (team-member exchange; TMX). We hypothesise that servant leadership will have an influence on Organisational Citizenship Behavior (OCB) and creativity through team-member exchange. Two facets of OCB are distinguished: organisational citizenship behaviour towards individuals (OCBI), on the one hand, and taking up extra tasks that benefit the organisation (OCBO), on the other hand. The results show that servant leadership is positively related to team-member exchange, and that team-member exchange is positively related to OCBI, OCBO and creativity. The bootstrapping estimates indicated significant indirect effects of servant leadership on the three target variables through team-member exchange. The study's findings add to the body of literature on servant leadership, OCB and creativity at the workplace, and underline the importance of creating favourable working conditions that foster positive and high quality team-member exchange. This study also broadens our understanding on the importance of co-workers on the relation between servant leadership and organizational citizenship behavior (OCB) and creativity.","139":"This special issue is devoted to Prof. Dr. W. Lens, who passed away end of August 2014 while he was vacationing. The special issue is meant to honor Willy's intellectual contribution to the field of motivation psychology and his enthusiastic and devoted mentorship, which has spurred many of us to study motivation-related topics. In line with Willy's interest and extensive network, the special issue brings together scholars from diverse theoretical perspectives (i.e., Achievement Goal Theory, Future Time Perspective Theory, and Self-Determination Theory) and diverse cultural backgrounds (i.e., China, Peru, Greece, Portugal, Belgium, US, Australia, Canada). We introduce the special issue by highlighting four emerging trends that characterize contemporary motivation psychology and that were central to Willy's work: (a) multiperspectivism (i.e., a reliance on multiple motivational frameworks); (b) the diversity of motives and goals that underlie behavior (i.e., motivational heterogeneity); (c) interest in motives for non-participation; and (d) the issue of universalism versus relativism (i.e., the question whether there exist universal motivational processes or whether these processes are contingent upon sociodemographic, personality-based, and contextual factors). Each of the eight contributions in the special issue touch upon one or more of these emerging themes, which are critically discussed in conjunction with a number of directions for future research.","140":"Dr. Willy Lens, born on December 10th, 1943, passed away on August 29th, 2014. With his passing, the motivation community has lost a seminal member, a mentor, and a friend. Dr. Lens - a Fellow of the Association for Psychological Science and Founding Fellow of the American Educational Research Association - made fundamental contributions to the study of motivation both through his own work and through his caring and thoughtful mentorship of a large community of scholars. With this tribute, we want to honor Dr. Willy Lens' significance to psychology and education as well as his positive influence, both personally and professionally, on the lives of dozens of scholars. With his contagious enthusiasm and caring mentorship, Willy was an example for our academic community and with this tribute we express our gratitude for the privilege to have collaborated with him.","141":"In a sample of long distance runners, we examined the role of type of intrapersonal achievement goals (i.e., approach versus avoidance) and type of underlying reasons (i.e., autonomous and controlled), assessed prior to the race, as predictors of both pre-race (e.g., race appraisals) and post-race (e.g., flow experience) outcomes. Of 221 (62.4% males) runners, 111 reported pursuing an intrapersonal-approach goal (i.e., doing better than before) as their dominant or preferred achievement goal for the race, while 86 prioritized intrapersonal-avoidance goals (i.e., avoiding to perform worse than before). Regression and path analyses showed that the type of achievement goals predicted none of the outcomes except for running time, with approach goals predicting better performance when compared to avoidance goals. Path analyses revealed that autonomous reasons underlying intrapersonal goal pursuit related positively to pre-race challenge appraisals, performance and, via need satisfaction, to flow experience. Interestingly, controlled reasons positively related to pre-race threat appraisals and positively predicted both positive and negative self-talk, with both yielding opposing relations with flow. These findings complement past research on the intersection between the Achievement Goal Approach and Self-Determination Theory and highlight the value of studying the reasons underlying intrapersonal achievement goals.","142":"Two motivational theories - the Achievement Goal Theory and Self-Determination Theory - have recently been combined to explain students' motivation, making it possible to study the \"what\" and the \"why\" of learners' achievement strivings. The present study built on this approach by (a) investigating whether the distinction between autonomous or volitional and controlling or pressuring reasons can be meaningfully applied to the adoption of mastery-avoidance goals, (b) investigating the concurrent and prospectiverelations between mastery-avoidance goals and their underlying reasons and learning strategies when mastery-approach goals and their underlying reasons were also considered, and by (c) incorporating psychological need experiences as an explanatory variable in the relation between achievement motives (i.e., the motive to succeed and motive to avoid failure) and both mastery goals and their underlying reasons. In two Turkish university students samples (N = 226, Mage = 22.36; N = 331, Mage = 19.5), autonomous and controlling reasons appeared applicable to mastery-avoidance goals and regression and path analysis further showed that mastery-avoidance goals and their underlying autonomous reasons fail to predicted learning strategies over and above the pursuit of mastery-approach goals and their underlying reasons. Finally, need experiences were established as mediators between achievement motives and both mastery goals and their underlying reasons.","143":"This study examined whether the good or bad outcomes associated with mastery-approach (MAP) and performance-approach (PAP) goals depend on the extent to which they are motivated by autonomous or controlled motivation. A sample of 515 undergraduate students who participated in sport completed measures of achievement goals, motivation of achievement goals, perceived goal attainment, sport satisfaction, and both positive and negative affect. Results of moderated regression analyses revealed that the positive relations of both MAP and PAP goals with perceived goal attainment were stronger for athletes pursuing these goals with high level of autonomous goal motivation. Also, the positive relations between PAP goals and both sport satisfaction and positive affect were stronger at high levels of autonomous goal motivation and controlled goal motivation. The shape of all these significant interactions was consistent with tenets of Self-Determination Theory as controlled goal motivation was negatively associated with positive affect and sport satisfaction and positively associated with negative affect. Overall, these findings demonstrated the importance of considering goal motivation in order to better understand the conditions under which achievement goals are associated with better experiential and performance outcomes in the lives of sport participants.","144":"Building on the future oriented and regulated nature of instrumental goals, Lens and colleagues developed a 2 (proximal-distal) x 2 (internal-external) motivational framework. The current study aimed to test this framework from a person-centred perspective, while equally taking into account students' lack of motivation as to extend the empirical and theoretical borders of the model. Latent Profile Analyses were used to test the viability of two to five motivational profiles among Japanese second-year students (N = 781). A solution with three latent subgroups fitted the sample best, explaining 6% to 62% of the variance in the measured variables. The profiles were labelled \"low future oriented motivational profile\", \"average motivated profile\", and \"highly motivated profile\". The highly motivated subgroup reported the most adaptive pattern of motivation and highest levels of deep level learning, while few differences were found for surface learning and GPA. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.","145":"Professor Willy Lens has provided inspiration through his scholarship and mentorship for research in Future Time Perspective (FTP) theory. The traditional conceptualization of FTP consists of hierarchically organized psychological constructs that define individual differences in perceptions of the future across varying levels of specificity. The levels of specificity create a nested variable structure that is often described in a top-down fashion, from domain-general to context-specific. In the current study, relations among measures of connectedness, an FTP construct regarding concern for and planfulness about the future, are examined at three levels of specificity: domain-general, domain-specific, and context-specific. We examine interactions between domain-specific and domain-general levels of FTP. A sample of 3962 undergraduate engineering majors (mean age 20) from a large research university in the southwestern United States of America were surveyed. Hierarchical linear modeling was used to examine the hypothesis that aggregate classroom levels of student knowledge building moderate relations in the nested connectedness variable structure. At the student level of analysis measures of students' domain-general, domain-specific, and context-specific connectedness were significantly and positively related. At the classroom level of analysis, results indicated that higher levels of aggregate classroom knowledge building shifted the direction of relations suggesting that in more engaging classroom contexts perceived value of learning for reaching a future goal may shape how students plan for future careers (domain-specific FTP). Implications for FTP theory are discussed.","146":"This research comprises two studies based on Self Determination Theory. In Study 1, we translate and examine the factor structure of the Basic Psychological Needs Satisfaction and Frustration Scale (BPNSFS; Chen, Vansteenkiste et al., 2015) in a sample of Portuguese undergraduate students. Further, in Study 2 we used an independent longitudinal sample of 12th grade students to inspect whether the six subscales differently predict adjustment over time. Confirmatory factor analysis showed that a six-factor solution best fitted the BPNSFS data. Subsequent structural equation modelling indicated that the dimensions of need satisfaction and need frustration predicted unique variance in participants' well-being and ill-being over time, even after controlling for reciprocal and baseline effects. Taken together the findings support the 6-factor multidimensional structure of the BPNSFS and provide extensive support for the distinction between the satisfaction and frustration dimensions of needs, suggesting that they should be measured and interpreted as relatively distinct motivational constructs.","147":"There is ongoing debate about the universal or culture-specific role of controlling parenting in children's and adolescents' development. This study addressed the possibility of cultural variability in how controlling parenting practices are perceived and dealt with. Specifically, we examined Belgian (N = 341) and Chinese (N = 316) adolescents' perceptions of and reactions towards a vignette depicting parental guilt-induction, relative to generally controlling and autonomy supportive vignettes. Whereas Belgian adolescents perceived guilt-induction to be as controlling as generally controlling parental behavior, Chinese adolescents' perception of guilt-induction as controlling was more moderate. Belgian and Chinese adolescents also showed some similarities and differences in their responses to the feelings of need frustration following from the controlling practices, with compulsive compliance for instance being more common in Chinese adolescents. Discussion focuses on cross-cultural similarities and differences in dynamics of controlling parenting.","148":"Although recent studies have found contingent self-esteem (CSE) to be negatively related to individuals' well-being, research concerning its implications for motivation and engagement is scarce. In two studies, we investigated the relation between CSE, motivation, and engagement in achievement-related situations. A first cross-sectional study among second year high school students (N = 641; 54.1% female) confirmed the hypothesized motivational ambiguity associated with academic CSE. Beyond the contribution of academic self-esteem, academic CSE was positively related to behavioral and emotional engagement, but also to emotional disaffection and test anxiety. These associations could partially be explained by motivational quality, as CSE was also positively related to both autonomous and controlled types of motivation. In a second experimental study among university students (N = 72; 70.8% female), who participated in a tangram puzzle task under varying feedback circumstances, global CSE related to more tension, while predicting less behavioral task perseverance. These effects were not moderated by the type of feedback provided (i.e., positive vs. negative). Theoretical and practical implications of these results are discussed.","149":"Studies examining the relationship between alexithymia and personality exclusively employed self-report measures of alexithymia. In the present study, we examined the relationship of both observer-rated and self-reported alexithymia with the Big Five personality dimensions. We administered the Toronto Structured Interview for Alexithymia (TSIA) as an interview-based measure of alexithymia and, in addition, two self-report questionnaires, the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20) and the Bermond-Vorst Alexithymia Questionnaire (BVAQ). Fifty-one university students were interviewed and completed the alexithymia scales and the NEO Five-Factor Inventory. In contrast to TAS-20 and BVAQ, the Difficulty identifying feelings (DIF) scale of the TSIA was found to be unrelated to neuroticism, suggesting that the frequently reported association between DIF and neuroticism could be due to the use of self-report scales. In contrast, the affective dimension of alexithymia, measured by the BVAQ, was even negatively related with neuroticism. Thus, a paucity of fantasy and little emotional arousal goes together with increased emotional stability. Furthermore, we revealed negative correlations between interview-based alexithymia scores and openness to experience and agreeableness, which cross-validated the self-report findings. Finally, extraversion and conscientiousness each showed only one negative correlation, namely with subscales of the BVAQ. Taken together, our findings show that on the basis of interviews there is no evidence for a relation of DIF with neuroticism, while associations of alexithymia with low openness to experience and low agreeableness emerged irrespective of assessment approach. The relations of alexithymia with personality are discussed in the light of different measurement approaches.","150":"The present studies aim to compare the cultural values promoted by the French educational system and the Turkish families living in France to their youngsters. Because of their collectivist background Turkish immigrants may convey less individualistic values to their children compared to French parents and teachers. However, Turkish students may become more individualistic as they are socialized in the school system. In study 1 (N = 119), French school teachers, French parents, and Turkish-origin parents had to resolve six dilemmas by choosing either an individualistic or a collectivistic response-option. As expected, French teachers emphasized individualism more than Turkish parents, but not more than French parents. In Study 2 (N = 159), similar dilemmas were presented to French and Turkish-origin pupils. In elementary school, Turkish children were less individualistic than French-born children, but this gap was reduced in high school.","151":"This study examines the impeding role of self-critical perfectionism at onset of treatment on therapeutic alliance during treatment and eating disorder symptoms at follow-up in patients with an eating disorder. Participants were 53 female patients with a mean age of 21.1 years treated for an eating disorder in a specialized inpatient treatment unit. Self-critical perfectionism was assessed at admission, therapeutic alliance was assessed during treatment (after three months of treatment), and eating disorder symptoms were assessed at admission, after three months and one year later. Self-critical perfectionism negatively related to treatment alliance with the therapist. Although self-critical perfectionism was not directly predictive of subsequent changes in eating disorder symptoms, it was indirectly related to less reduction in body dissatisfaction through the therapeutic alliance. These results point to the importance of self-critical perfectionism in the therapeutic alliance and in changes in body image problems. Treatment implications are discussed.","152":"Introduction: The Attitudes to Aging Questionnaire (AAQ) was developed to measure attitudes toward the aging process as a personal experience from the perspective of older people. The present study aimed to validate the French version of the AAQ. Participants and methods: This study examined factor structure, acceptability, reliability and validity of the AAQ's French version in 238 Belgian adults aged 60 years or older. In addition, participants provided information on demographics, self-perception of their mental and physical health (single items), quality of life (WHOQOL-OLD) and social desirability (DS-36). Results: Exploratory Factor Analysis produced a three-factor solution accounting for 36.9% of the variance. No floor or ceiling effects were found. The internal consistency, measured by Cronbach's alpha coefficients for the AAQ subscales were 0.62 (Physical Change), 0.74 (Psychological Growth), and 0.75 (Psychosocial Loss). A priori expected associations were found between AAQ subscales, self-reported health and quality of life, indicating good convergent validity. The scale also showed a good ability to discriminate between people with lower and higher education levels, supporting adequate known-groups validity. Finally, we confirmed the need to control for social desirability biases when assessing self-reported attitudes toward one's own aging. Conclusion: The data support the usefulness of the French version of the AAQ for the assessment of attitudes toward their own aging in older people.","153":"The purpose of this research was to examine the validity of an adult attachment style questionnaire, to understand the relationships between the type of attachment style in relation to self-perceived stress and social support, and to investigate the influence of gender, ethnicity and religion on the above constructs. The participants were 308 university students from Malaysia. A demographic questionnaire and three self-report inventories were administrated in this study. The data indicated that the Relationship Scales Questionnaire (RSQ) is a multidimensional construct with nine factors: \"dismissing,\" \"preoccupied with romance,\" \"preoccupied with close relationships,\" \"fearful,\" \"preoccupied with dependency,\" \"secure emotional,\" \"comfortable depending,\" \"preoccupied with mistrust\" and \"mutual secure.\" Different attachment styles were positively or negatively correlated at a significant level with perceived stress and social support. Attachment styles were explained by 20 and 33% of the total variance in self-perceived stress and perceived social support, respectively. There were significant gender, ethnic and religious differences in attachment styles, perceived stress and social support.","154":"Teenagers commonly use cannabis. Expectancies related to the effects of cannabis play an important role in its consumption and are frequently measured with the Marijuana Effect Expectancies Questionnaire (MEEQ). This study aims to assess the psychometric properties (factor structure, internal consistency reliability, criterion validity) of the French MEEQ. A sample of 1,343 non-clinical teenagers (14-18 years) were recruited to answer a self-report questionnaire; 877 of them responded twice (one-year interval). A four-factor structure was obtained: Cognitive Impairment and Negative, Relaxation and Social Facilitation, Perceptual Enhancement and Craving and Negative Behavioral Effect Expectancies. It is concluded that the French MEEQ constitutes an appropriate tool to measure cannabis effect expectancies among adolescents.","155":"The oppression of women in rural China is more severe than in urban China, not only because the two areas differ in terms of social hierarchy, but also because urban women are more likely to fight against their subordination, which is endorsed by conventional social views on gender. To independently assess these relationships, we applied the Quadruple Process model to measure the processes underlying implicit gender attitudes in a sample of urban and rural females. The results indicated that the urban women had higher in-group favoritism than did the rural women. Application of the Quad model, however, showed that pro-women associations were similarly activated among urban and rural women, but that women in rural settings more effectively inhibited activated associations. Differences in inhibition, rather than in activated associations, appear to account for the less favorable attitudes among rural women. Thus, the differences in attitudinal responses among urban and rural women exaggerate the differences in underlying evaluative associations with respect to gender and conceal differences in self-regulating the expression of those associations.","156":"The Center of Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) is a commonly used self-report scale to measure depressive symptoms in the general population. In the present study, the Dutch version of the CES-D was administered to a sample of 837 Dutch-speaking adults of Belgium to examine the factor structure of the scale. Using confirmatory factory analysis (CFA), four first-order models and two second-order models were tested, and the second-order factor model with three pairs of correlated error terms provided the best fit to the data. Second, five socio-demographic variables (age, gender, education level, relation status, and family history of depression) were included as covariates to the second-order factor model to explore the associations between background characteristics and the latent factor depression using a multiple indicators and multiple causes (MIMIC) approach. Age had a significantly negative effect on depression, but the effect was not substantial. Female gender, lower education level, being single or widowed, and having a family history of depression were found to be significant predictors of higher levels of depression symptomatology. Finally, percentile norms on the CES-D raw scores were provided for subgroups of gender by education level for the general Dutch-speaking adult population of Belgium.","157":"This study examined the indirect effects of relationship status (single vs. in a relationship) on life satisfaction through social and emotional (romantic and family) loneliness and perceived social support from significant others, family, and friends. Five hundred and fifty three Polish young adults (335 females and 218 males), ranging in age from 20-30 years (M = 23.42), completed the Polish versions of the Satisfaction With Life Scale, the Social and Emotional Loneliness Scale for Adults, and the Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support. The results indicated that single individuals reported significantly lower satisfaction with life and social support from a significant other, but higher romantic and social loneliness, and higher family support compared to participants in a relationship. A path analysis revealed no direct effect of relationship status on satisfaction with life. However, there were significant indirect effects from relationship status to life satisfaction though romantic, family, and social loneliness, and through perceived social support from significant others and from family. Therefore, singlehood may be deleterious to life satisfaction because of the higher loneliness and lower social support from a significant other.","158":"This study aimed at exploring the effects of aging on the multiple components of the auditory-verbal short-term memory (STM). Participants of 45-54, 55-64, 65-74 and 75-84 years of age were presented STM tasks assessing short-term retention of order and item information, and of phonological and lexical-semantic information separately. Because older participants often present reduced hearing levels, we sought to control for an effect of hearing status on performance on STM tasks. Participants' hearing thresholds were measured with a pure-tone audiometer. The results showed age-related effects on all STM components. However, after hearing status was controlled for in analyses of covariance, the age-related differences became non-significant for all STM processes. The fact that age-related hearing loss may in large part explain decreases in performance on STM tasks with aging is discussed.","159":"This study examined the reliability and validity evidence drawn from the scores of the French version of the Questionnaire about Interpersonal Difficulties for Adolescents (QIDA) in a sample of 957 adolescents (48.5% boys) ranging in age from 11 to 18 years (M = 14.48, SD = 1.85). A principal axis factoring (PAF) and confirmatory factor analyses (CFA) were performed to determine the fit of the factor structure of scores on the QIDA. PAF and CFA replicated the previously identified correlated five-factor structure of the QIDA: Assertiveness, Heterosexual Relationships, Public Speaking, Family Relationships, and Close Friendships. The QIDA yielded acceptable reliability scores for French adolescents. Validity evidence of QIDA was also established through correlations with scores on the School Anxiety Inventory and the Social Anxiety Scale for Adolescents. Most of the correlations were positive and exceeded the established criteria of statistical significance, but the magnitude of these varied according to the scales of the QIDA. Results supported the reliability and validity evidence drawn from the scores of the French version of the QIDA.","160":"It is well established that negative work-home interference (NegWHI) impacts upon several work attitudes and behaviors. In the interests of both organizational effectiveness and employee well-being, it is important to identify concepts related to NegWHI and investigate their effects on well-being outcomes. This study examines the mediating role of (1) perceived organizational support (POS) in the relationship between organizational justice (OJ) and NegWHI; and (2) NegWHI in the relationships between POS and four well-being outcomes. A total of 509 employees of a Belgian hospital were surveyed. Data were analyzed using structural equation modeling and the bootstrapping method. Results showed that POS partially mediates the relationships between distributive and passive procedural justice and NegWHI, and fully mediates the relationship between the other justice dimensions and NegWHI. NegWHI partially mediates the relationships between POS and both job satisfaction and intention to quit, and fully mediates the relationship between POS and job strain. Furthermore, POS is positively related to job engagement. This study showed that organizations can help employees to better manage their work and family lives and reduce the impact of NegWHI by enhancing employees' feeling that they are supported by their organization. In order to increase POS, organizations need to promote justice in the workplace.","161":"Over the last years, mindfulness-based interventions combined with habit reversal training have been demonstrated to be particularly suitable for addressing trichotillomania. However, because these studies always combined mindfulness training to habit reversal without including either a mindfulness or habit reversal condition alone, it is still unclear whether clinical benefits are the consequences of mindfulness or merely result from habit reversal training. The primary purpose of the present study was thus to examine whether a mindfulness training procedure without habit reversal could alleviate trichotillomania. Using a Bayesian probabilistic approach for single-case design, client's hair loss severity and level of mindfulness were compared to a normative sample (n = 15) before treatment, after treatment, and at six-month follow-up. Improvement in mindfulness first occurred, and that beneficial effect then transferred to hair-pulling. Indeed, as compared to the normative sample, the client exhibited, from baseline to post-treatment, an improvement in mindfulness. Although a marginal trend to improvement was already evidenced at post-treatment, the mindfulness program only had a significant beneficial effect transferred to hair-loss severity at six-month follow-up. Although it remains particularly difficult to infer generalization from one client, the data from the present case study are the first to suggest that mindfulness training per se might be a suitable clinical intervention for trichotillomania.","162":"How does the visual system realize dynamic tracking? This topic has become popular within cognitive science in recent years. The classical theory argues that multiple object tracking is accomplished via pre-attention visual indexes as part of a cognitively impenetrable low-level visual system. The present research aimed to investigate whether and how tracking processes are influenced by facial expressions that convey abundant social information about one's mental state and situated environment. The results showed that participants tracked fearful faces more effectively than neutral faces. However, this advantage was only present under the low-attentional load condition, and distractor face emotion did not impact tracking performance. These findings imply that visual tracking is not driven entirely by low-level vision and encapsulated by high-level representations; rather, that facial expressions, a kind of social information, are able to influence dynamic tracking. Furthermore, the effect of fearful expressions on multiple face tracking is mediated by the availability of attentional resources.","163":"Objective: The aim of this study was to explore the life stories of depressive adolescents and compare them with non-clinical adolescents' life stories. Methods: For this purpose, we compared 20 life stories of hospitalized adolescents suffering from major depressive episode with 40 life stories of adolescents attending school divided into two groups: 20 non-depressed and 20 depressed adolescents. Results: Results showed that life stories differed as a function of psychopathology. Depressed hospitalized adolescents spoke about their disease and defined themselves by their depression. The depressed adolescents in school concentrated on schooling and school achievements, while the non-depressed group defined themselves by their family, friends and inclusion in a peer group. Conclusion: These analyses allowed us to highlight specific themes mentioned by each of the three groups of adolescents. Although life stories are personal and unique, analysis of such stories allows us to better understand the daily reality of depressive adolescents and the relationships between the life events they experience, daily stressors, depression and how they construct their personal history.","164":"Background: Low levels of environmental rewards have been related to depression on a number of occasions in the scientific literature. Two scales have been created to assess environmental rewards: the Environmental Reward Observation Scale (EROS) and the Reward Probability Index (RPI). This study aims to validate the French versions of these two scales. Method: 466 non-clinical adults completed an online survey assessing environmental rewards, depression, anxiety, activation, avoidance and behavioural systems. Confirmatory factor analyses were performed to assess the factorial structures of the French EROS and RPI. Results: A one-factor solution for the EROS and a two-factor solution for the RPI best fitted the data. High levels of internal consistency were found for both the EROS and the RPI. Convergent validity was also examined, revealing that high environmental rewards appear to be related to activation and behavioural activation system. Conclusion: The French versions of the EROS and the RPI appear to be reliable assessments of environmental rewards.","165":"Using survey and experimental data, the present research examines the effect of brand perception on experienced taste. The content of brand perception can be organized along the two social perception dimensions of warmth and competence. We use these two dimensions to systematically investigate the influence of brand perception on experienced taste and consumer behavior toward food products. The brand's perceived warmth and competence independently influenced taste, both when it was measured as a belief and as an embodied experience following consumption. Taste mediated the link between brand's warmth and competence perceptions and three consumer behavioral tendencies crucial for the marketing success of brands: buying intentions, brand loyalty, and support for the brand.","166":"Entrepreneurial orientation is defined as an organization's strategy, describing its innovativeness, proactivity, risk taking, autonomy and competitiveness. We argue that this concept can be translated to the individual level as a constellation of five personality traits that characterize entrepreneurs. We examine the usefulness of these five traits in explaining entrepreneurial status and success. Our results show that entrepreneurs score higher than non-entrepreneurs on innovativeness, proactivity, and risk taking. In addition, latent growth curve modeling revealed that the individual EO traits were related to objective venture performance, albeit only after introducing venture life cycle as a moderator. In line with a differentiation perspective, risk taking, innovativeness, need for achievement, and need for autonomy were positively related to revenue and number of employees when venture life cycle was high. In line with a situation strength perspective, need for autonomy was positively related with growth in number of employees when venture life cycle was low. We conclude that individual entrepreneurial orientation offers a useful framework to understanding entrepreneurship once situational factors, such as venture life cycle, are taken into consideration.","167":"The aim of this article was to validate and compare the Dutch translations of the Gratitude Questionnaire (GQ6) and the Short Gratitude, Resentment, and Appreciation Test (SGRAT) in an adult general population sample. In an online survey, 706 respondents (M age = 44, SD age = 14) completed Dutch versions of the GQ6, the SGRAT, the Satisfaction With Life Scale (SWLS) and the Positive Affect and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS). At six week follow-up, 440 (62%) of them (M age = 46, SD age = 14) again completed the GQ6-NL and SGRAT-NL. Parallel analyses, exploratory factor analyses and confirmatory factor analyses revealed and confirmed one factor for the GQ6-NL, and three factors for the SGRAT-NL. Internal consistency indices of the GQ6-NL and of the SGRAT-NL were satisfactory. Both questionnaires demonstrated good test-retest reliability. Regression analyses showed, for the total scores on both gratitude questionnaires, positive associations with the SWLS and the Positive Affect Scale, and negative associations with the Negative Affect Scale. The results support the validity of the Dutch GQ6 and SGRAT. These questionnaires can be used to conduct further research of the grateful disposition in Dutch speaking individuals and groups.","168":"The present study investigated people's understanding of underinformative sentences like 'Some oaks are trees'. Specifically, the scalar term 'some' can be interpreted pragmatically, Not all oaks are trees, or logically, some and possibly all oaks are trees. The aim of this study was to capture the interindividual variability in the interpretation of such sentences. In two experiments, participants provided truth value judgments for 20 underinformative sentences on which a latent class analysis was performed. The results revealed three latent classes: a consistent pragmatic group, a consistent logical group and an inconsistent group. Furthermore, we examined whether this interindividual variability could be explained by text characteristics, response times, cognitive abilities and personality traits. The results showed that only participants' response times to the underinformative sentences could predict class membership. Specifically, the slower participants responded, the more likely they were to interpret underinformative sentences consistently pragmatic or inconsistent instead of consistently logical.","169":"Recent studies have shown that students often misinterpret the area of the box in box plots as representing the frequency or proportion of observations in that interval, while it actually represents density. This misinterpretation has been shown to be based on the saliency of this area and can be explained by heuristic reasoning as defined by dual process theories. In this study we tested whether expert users of box plots also display this misinterpretation and show signs of the same heuristic reasoning as found in students. Using a reaction time test, we found signs of heuristic reasoning in experts, both with respect to accuracy and reaction times. If even experts have difficulty interpreting box plots, one can question whether these are an appropriate form of representation to use when reporting data and deserve the prominent place they currently have in the statistics curriculum.","170":"Recent research revealed that despite its financial costs, overcompensation is not more effective to restore trust in the perpetrator than equal compensation. In a lab experiment (N = 115), we compared the effects of these compensation sizes for both targets of the compensation and non-involved observers. It was revealed that overcompensation did not yield superior outcomes than equal compensation. Specifically, for targets overcompensation resulted in lower levels of trust than equal compensation, while for observers equal compensation and overcompensation resulted in similar levels of trust. This finding suggests that overcompensation is not a cost-effective trust repair strategy, neither for the targets nor for third party observers. Other implications are discussed as well.","171":"In three experiments, we investigated the effect of age, task, task content and working memory (WM) on scalar implicature processing. We found that three-year-olds still often interpret the scalar term 'some' logically (some being compatible with all), but five-year-olds and especially seven-year-olds are highly competent pragmatic reasoners. Additionally we found that not only the nature of the task but also the specific task content influences the number of pragmatic answers: an Action-Based-Task (ABT) leads to more pragmatic answers than a metalinguistic Truth-Value Judgment Task (TVJT) that, in turn, leads to more pragmatic answers than a different TVJT that includes more cognitive content. Finally, we found no effect of WM in both five-year-olds and seven-year-olds. Children with a high WM capacity did not provide significantly more pragmatic answers than children with a low WM capacity.","172":"The capacity limitation of working memory is a widely recognised determinant of human learning. A cognitive load exceeding the capacity hampers learning. Cognitive load can be controlled by tailoring an instructional design to levels of learner prior knowledge. However, such as design does not necessarily motivate to use the available capacity for better learning. The present review examines literatures on the effects of instructional design, motivation, emotional state, and expertise level on cognitive load and cognitive effort, which ultimately affect working memory performance and learning. This examination suggests further studies on the effects of motivation and negative emotional states on the use of working memory. Prospective findings would help better explain and predict individual differences in the use of working memory for cognitive learning and task performance.","173":"Earlier studies demonstrated that adult emotional competences (EC) can be improved through relatively brief training. This increase has been investigated, thus far, using self-reported questionnaires and behavioral data. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the cerebral correlates underlying improvement in EC. An experimental group received an EC training and a control group received brief sessions of drama improvisation. Participants viewed negative, positive, and neutral pictures while attempting to decrease, increase, or not modulate their emotional reactions. Subjective reactions were assessed via on-line ratings. After the intervention, the training group showed less cerebral activity as compared to the control group within different regions related to emotional regulation and attention including prefrontal regions and the bilateral inferior parietal lobule, the right precentral gyrus and the intraparietal sulcus. These results suggest increased neural efficiency in the training group as a result of emotional competencies training.","174":"A reduced directed-forgetting (DF) effect in normal aging has frequently been observed with the item method. These results were interpreted as age-related difficulties in inhibiting the processing of irrelevant information. However, since the performance of older adults is usually lower on items to remember, the age effect on DF abilities could also be interpreted as reflecting memory problems. Consequently, the present study aimed at investigating the influence of memory traces quality on the magnitude of the DF effects in normal aging. We predicted that increasing the quality of memory traces (by increasing presentation times at encoding) would be associated with attenuated DF effects in older participants due to the increased difficulty of inhibiting highly activated memory traces. A classical item-method DF paradigm was administered to 48 young and 48 older participants under short and long encoding conditions. Memory performance for information to memorize and to suppress was assessed with recall and recognition procedures, as well as with a Remember\/Know\/Guess (RKG) paradigm. The results indicated that, when memory traces are equated between groups, DF effects observed with the recall, recognition and RKG procedures are of similar amplitude in both groups (all ps&gt;0.05). This suggests that the decreased DF effect previously observed in older adults might not actually depend on their inhibitory abilities but may rather reflect quantitative and qualitative differences in episodic memory functioning.","175":"","176":"The Spontaneous Use of Imagery Scale (SUIS) is used to measure the tendency to use visual mental imagery in daily life. Its psychometric properties were evaluated in three independent samples (total N = 1297). We evaluated the internal consistency and test-retest reliability of the questionnaire. We also examined the structure of the items using exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis. Moreover, correlations with other imagery questionnaires provided evidence about convergent validity. The SUIS had acceptable reliability and convergent validity. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis revealed that a unidimensional structure fit the data, suggesting that the SUIS indeed measures a general use of mental imagery in daily life. Future research can further investigate and improve the psychometric properties of the SUIS. Moreover, the SUIS could be useful to determine how imagery relates to e.g. psychopathology.","177":"Following early amnesic case reports, there is now considerable evidence suggesting a link between remembering the past and envisioning the future. This link is evident in the overlap in neural substrates as well as cognitive processes involved in both kinds of tasks. While constructing a future narrative requires multiple processes, neuroimaging and lesion data converge on a critical role for the medial temporal lobes (MTL) in retrieving and recombining details from memory in the service of novel simulations. Deficient detail retrieval and recombination may lead to impairments not only in episodic, but also in semantic prospection. MTL contributions to scene construction and mental time travel may further compound impairments in amnesia on tasks that pose additional demands on these processes, but are unlikely to form the core deficit underlying amnesics' cross-domain future thinking impairment. Future studies exploring the role of episodic memory in other forms of self-projection or future-oriented behaviour may elucidate further the adaptive role of memory.","178":"A substantial immigration of Portuguese and other foreign nationals to Belgium due to a favorable immigration policy guides this investigation to focus on this group in order to study the influence of the acculturation experience on birth-control practices.  Choosing a sample of 100 married women within a group of 998 Portuguese immigrants in an urban municipality in Brussels, the study sets out specifically to investigate whether these immigrants adopt attitude patterns of the receiving social group or if they preserve the customs of their original community.  The hypothesis held by the study was that the better the woman's integration into Belgian society, the larger her knowledge and acceptance of contraceptives would be.  The study found that the majority of interviewed immigrants remained poorly integrated into the Belgian society, and that the transition from a traditional to an industrial society had not included great changes in attitudinal behavior which would facilitate social and cultural integration into the new society.  In terms of attitudes toward contraception, negative behavior was observed to be linked not to levels of acculturation, but rather to lack of information.  Though the majority of respondents expressed desires for controlled fecundity even when still in Portugal, those who came to Belgium with no previous knowledge or desires admitted to having felt the need for contraceptive practice.  The crucial factor in acceptance of modern contraceptive practices is singled out as one of communication.  Access to information about contraception is readily available in the Belgian society.  The information actually obtained by the women, however, depended on their access to informational channels, the circumstances through which they got in touch with such sources, and their problems with a language barrier when relying on the media through which contraceptive knowledge was made available."},"articletitle":{"0":"Comparative Optimism, Self-Superiority, Egocentric Impact Perception and Health Information Seeking: A COVID-19 Study.","1":"The Role of Psychology in Media During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Cross-National Study.","2":"When History Seems to Repeat Itself: Exposure to Perceived Lessons of the Past Influences Predictions About Current Political Events.","3":"The Complex Interplay Between Trait Fatigue and Cognition in Multiple Sclerosis.","4":"On the Measurement of Climate Change Anxiety: French Validation of the Climate Anxiety Scale.","5":"Perceptions of the Targets and Sources of COVID-19 Threat are Structured by Group Memberships and Responses are Influenced by Identification with Humankind.","6":"\"What if It's not Just an Item of Clothing?\" - A Narrative Review and Synthesis of the White Coat in the Context of Aged Care.","7":"French Adaptation of the Brief Irritability Test: Factor Structure, Psychometric Properties, and Relationship with Depressive Symptoms.","8":"COVID-19 and Its Lockdown in Belgium: How Limited Access to Environmental Satisfaction Impacts Emotions?","9":"The Nature of Client Agency Prior to Therapy: A Qualitative Study on Clients' Narratives.","10":"Intimate Relationships in Times of COVID-19: A Descriptive Study of Belgian Partners and their Perceived Well-Being.","11":"Excessive Worrying as a Central Feature of Anxiety during the First COVID-19 Lockdown-Phase in Belgium: Insights from a Network Approach.","12":"COVID-19 Help-Seeking Behaviors: Application of the Theory of Planned Behavior.","13":"Testing Measurement Invariance of the Dark Triad Dirty Dozen in a Belgian Adult Sample.","14":"Mindfulness May Buffer Psychological Distress in Adolescents during the COVID-19 Pandemic: The Differential Role of Mindfulness Facets.","15":"Epidemiology, Risk Factors, and Prevention of Suicidal Thoughts and Behaviour in Prisons: A Literature Review.","16":"Mental Health Inequalities During COVID-19 Outbreak: The Role of Financial Insecurity and Attentional Control.","17":"Do Gender and Age Moderate the Relationship between Friendship Quality and Non-Suicidal Self-Injury in Community Children and Adolescents?","18":"Valuing Happiness is Not a Good Way of Pursuing Happiness, but Prioritizing Positivity is: A Replication Study.","19":"Letter From the Editor.","20":"Influence of the Belgian Coast on Well-Being During the COVID-19 Pandemic.","21":"Memory, Future Thinking, and the Self. In Honour of Martial Van Der Linden.","22":"When, why, and how do People Deviate from Physical Distancing Measures During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Mixed-Methods Study.","23":"Towards a Comprehensive Understanding of Body Image: Integrating Positive Body Image, Embodiment and Self-Compassion.","24":"Metadehumanization and Self-dehumanization are Linked to Reduced Drinking Refusal Self-Efficacy and Increased Anxiety and Depression Symptoms in Patients with Severe Alcohol Use Disorder.","25":"Anxiety, Compassion and Pride. How Emotions Elicited by the Government's Handling of Covid-19 Influences Health-Promoting Behavior.","26":"Dealing with a Crisis: Does Covid-19 Promote Traditional Gender Roles?","27":"Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) over the Intraparietal Sulcus Does Not Influence Working Memory Performance.","28":"Parents' Perceived Impact of the Societal Lockdown of COVID-19 on Family Well-Being and on the Emotional and Behavioral State of Walloon Belgian Children Aged 4 to 13 Years: An Exploratory Study.","29":"Egocentric Distance Perception Disorder in Amblyopia.","30":"The Short-Term Psychological Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic in Psychiatric Patients: Evidence for Differential Emotion and Symptom Trajectories in Belgium.","31":"The Use of the Term Virtual Reality in Post-Stroke Rehabilitation: A Scoping Review and Commentary.","32":"Reversible Verbal Memory Integration Deficits in Obstructive Sleep Apnoea.","33":"My Physical Appearance at the Center of Others' Concerns: What are the Consequences for Women's Metadehumanization and Emotions?","34":"Optimism and Mental Health in Adolescence: a Prospective Validation Study of the Dutch Life-Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R-A) for Adolescents.","35":"Psychometric Properties of Two Implicit Associations Tests measuring Adult Attachment.","36":"Expectations in Romantic Relations and Psychological Well-Being of Adolescents in Pakistan: Moderating Role of Parental Support.","37":"Sociodemographic, Cognitive, and Emotional Determinants of Two Health Behaviors during SARS-CoV-2 Outbreak: An Online Study among French-Speaking Belgian Responders during the Spring Lockdown.","38":"The Role of Subjective Experiences in Conflict Tasks: A Review.","39":"Does Self-Objectification Entail an Opposition Between Appearance and Competence? The Likert Version of the Self-Objectification Questionnaire (LSOQ).","40":"Psychometric Properties and Factor Structure of the French Version of the Behavioral Activation for Depression Scale (BADS) in Non-Clinical Adults.","41":"The Dutch Auditory &amp; Image Vocabulary Test (DAIVT): A New Dutch Receptive Vocabulary Test for Students.","42":"Non-Suicidal Self-Injury and Pathological Buying in Community Adults and Patients with Eating Disorders: Associations with Reactive and Regulative Temperament.","43":"A Stakeholder Perspective on Ethical Leadership in Sport: Bridging the Gap Between the Normative and Descriptive Lines of Inquiry.","44":"The Influence of Interpersonal Patterns on the Therapy Process in a Case of Childhood Trauma.","45":"Validation and Measurement Invariance of the Leuven Obsessional Intrusions Inventory in Two Different Cultures.","46":"Body Dissatisfaction as a Mediator between Identity Formation and Eating Disorder Symptomatology in Adolescents and Emerging Adults.","47":"A Brief Version of the Implicit Positive and Negative Affect Test (IPANAT-18).","48":"Children's Attention to Mother and Adolescent Stress Moderate the Attachment-Depressive Symptoms Link.","49":"Verbal Working Memory but Not Attention Is Related to Language Proficiency: Evidence from Multilingual Speakers.","50":"An Empirical Study on the Relationship between Causes of Teacher Examination Anxiety and Dimensions of Coping with Pre-Exam Anxiety: A Structural Equation Modelling Approach.","51":null,"52":"Normal Personality, the Dark Triad, Proactive Attitude and Perceived Employability: A Cross-Cultural Study in Belgium, Switzerland and Togo.","53":"An Explorative Study on the Relationship between Learning Opportunities at School and at Work and Adolescents' Mental Health.","54":"Psychometric Properties of the Dutch Cognitive Avoidance Questionnaire.","55":"What Are the Optimal Levels of Time Perspectives? Deviation from the Balanced Time Perspective-Revisited (DBTP-r).","56":"Clustering Infertile Couples With Dyadic Approach: WHO-5-WBI as a Promising Tool for Assessing Psychological State.","57":"Cultural Differences in The Content of Employees' Psychological Contract: A Qualitative Study Comparing Belgium and China.","58":"Psychometrics of MOOCs: Measuring Learners' Proficiency.","59":"Body and Social Anhedonia of Depression: A Bifactor Model Analysis.","60":"On the Characteristics of the Cognitive Dissonance State: Exploration Within the Pleasure Arousal Dominance Model.","61":"The Influence of Coping and Personality Styles on Satisfaction with Life in Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease.","62":"How Good It Would Be to Turn Back Time: Adult Attachment and Perfectionism in Mothers and Their Relationships with the Processes of Parental Identity Formation.","63":"Features of Flemish Emerging Adults and their Association with Demographic Markers.","64":"Correction: Cognitive Advantage in Children Enrolled in a Second-Language Immersion Elementary School Program for One Year.","65":"Submissive Behavior and Cyber Bullying: A Study on the Mediator Roles of Cyber Victimization and Moral Disengagement.","66":"Clarifying the Role of Negative Emotions in the Origin and Control of Impulsive Actions.","67":"Cognitive Advantage in Children Enrolled in a Second-Language Immersion Elementary School Program for One Year.","68":"Norm and Deviance-Seeking Personal Orientation Scale (NDPOS) Adapted to the Organisational Context.","69":"Psychometrics Anonymous: Does a Transparent Data Sharing Policy Affect Data Collection?","70":"A Social Psychological Model of Scientific Practices: Explaining Research Practices and Outlining the Potential for Successful Reforms.","71":"High-Performance Work Systems and Well-Being: Mediating Role of Work-to-Family Interface.","72":"Preregistration of Analyses of Preexisting Data.","73":"Open Up - the Mission Statement of the Control of Impulsive Action (Ctrl-ImpAct) Lab on Open Science.","74":"Recognition Times for 54 Thousand Dutch Words: Data from the Dutch Crowdsourcing Project.","75":"Screen Recordings as a Tool to Document Computer Assisted Data Collection Procedures.","76":"The Influence of Multiculturalism and Assimilation on Work-Related Outcomes: Differences Between Ethnic Minority and Majority Groups of Workers.","77":"Detachment from Work: A Diary Study on Telepressure, Smartphone Use and Empathy.","78":"How Do Time Limits Affect Our Psychotherapies? A Literature Review.","79":"Verbal and Musical Short-Term Memory: Evidence for Shared Serial Order Processes?","80":"Toward Empirical Evidence for Teachers' Mental Representations of Dyadic Relationships With Students: Two Priming Experiments.","81":"Behavioral and Cerebral Impairments Associated with Binge Drinking in Youth: A Critical Review.","82":"Daily Affect and Self-Esteem in Early Adolescence: Correlates of Mean Levels and Within-Person Variability.","83":"What Predicts Visibility Management at Work? A Study of Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Flemish Government Employees.","84":"Flemish Normative Data for the Buschke Selective Reminding Test.","85":"Parent-Child Physical Resemblance as Cues of Man's Paternity.","86":null,"87":"Does Change in Attention Control Mediate the Impact of tDCS on Attentional Bias for Threat? Limited Evidence from a Double-blind Sham-controlled Experiment in an Unselected Sample.","88":"Universality and Uniqueness of Students' Situational Interest in Physical Education: A Comparative Study.","89":"Conflict Detection and Logical Complexity.","90":"Social Support, Adjustment, and Psychological Distress of Help-Seeking Expatriates.","91":"Understanding Long-term Outcome from the Patients' Perspective: A Mixed Methods Naturalistic Study on Inpatient Psychotherapy.","92":"Moral Judgments Depend on Information Presentation: Evidence for Recency and Transfer Effects.","93":"Different Clinical Presentations in Eating Disorder Patients with Non-Suicidal Self-Injury Based on the Co-Occurrence of Borderline Personality Disorder.","94":"Executive Function, Chaos and Temperament: Specificities in Preschoolers with Externalizing Behaviors.","95":"Paul Eelen: Reflections on Life and Work.","96":"Classical Conditioning: Classical Yet Modern.","97":"Behaviour Therapy and Behaviour Modification Background and Development.","98":"The Therapist as Conditioned Stimulus.","99":"The Broken Achilles Heel of Behavior Therapy: A Couple of Reflections on the Function Analysis.","100":"Science and Society, Part IV: Psychologist Paul Eelen \"Not a Single Football Player will Believe that he is Determined by the Ball\".","101":"Why Humans Fail in Solving the Monty Hall Dilemma: A Systematic Review.","102":"The Impact of Language Switching Frequency on Attentional and Executive Functioning in Proficient Bilingual Adults.","103":"How does Conditional Regard Impact Well-being and Eagerness to Learn? An Experimental Study.","104":"Subjective Memory Complaints in Portuguese Young Adults: Contributions from the Adaptation of the Prospective and Retrospective Memory Questionnaire.","105":"The Delicate Balance to Adjustment: A Qualitative Approach of Student's Transition to the First Year at University.","106":"The Influence of Grit on Life Satisfaction: Self-Esteem as a Mediator.","107":"Validation of the Young Schema Questionnaire-Short Form in a Flemish Community Sample.","108":"Letter from the New Editor.","109":"Can Cancellara Really be a Flandrien? Ethno-Cultural Identity Representation Predicts Regional Exclusivity of a Historically Contested Cycling Term.","110":"Association between Non-Suicidal Self-Injury, Parents and Peers Related Loneliness, and Attitude Towards Aloneness in Flemish Adolescents: An Empirical Note.","111":"Correction: Identity Statuses Throughout Adolescence and Emerging Adulthood: A Large-scale Study into Gender, Age, and Contextual Differences.","112":"Self-Compassion Scale: IRT Psychometric Analysis, Validation, and Factor Structure - Slovak Translation.","113":"Job Insecurity and Innovative Work Behaviour: A Psychological Contract Perspective.","114":"Body Dissatisfaction Revisited: On the Importance of Implicit Beliefs about Actual and Ideal Body Image.","115":"Intergroup Reconciliation between Flemings and Walloons: The Predictive Value of Cognitive Style, Authoritarian Ideology, and Intergroup Emotions.","116":"An Insiders' Outside Perspective on the Flemish-Walloon Conflict: The Role of Identification and Disidentification for the German-Speaking Minority.","117":"Collective Victimhood and Ingroup Identity Jointly Shape Intergroup Relations, Even in a Non-violent Conflict: The Case of the Belgians.","118":"Walloons as General or Specific Others? A Comparison of anti-Walloon and anti-immigrant Attitudes in Flanders.","119":"The Structure of Prejudice and Its Relation to Party Preferences in Belgium: Flanders and Wallonia Compared.","120":"Attitudes Towards World War II Collaboration in Belgium: Effects on Political Positioning Towards the Amnesty Issue in the Two Main Linguistic Communities.","121":"Principled Disagreements: Adhesion to Intergroup Justice Standards in the Context of the Belgian Linguistic Conflict.","122":"Insights into the Belgian Linguistic Conflict from a (Social) Psychological Perspective: Introduction to the Special Issue.","123":"The Effect of Central Executive Load on Fourth and Sixth Graders' Use of Arithmetic Strategies.","124":"Implicit Belittlements Call for Implicit Measures: Emotional Reactions to Youth Paternalistic Stereotypes.","125":"Perpetrator as a Potential Victim. Does Threatened Retaliation from the Victim Reduce Obedience towards Authority?","126":"Factor Structure of the Affective Style Questionnaire in Flemish Adolescents.","127":"A Factorial Validation of Parental Mediation Strategies with Regard to Internet Use.","128":"The Role of Self-Transcendence and Cognitive Processes in the Response Expectancy Effect.","129":"Terminating a Child's Life? Religious, Moral, Cognitive, and Emotional Factors Underlying Non-Acceptance of Child Euthanasia.","130":"Exploring Acceptability and Feasibility of Evidence-Based Practice in Child Welfare Settings: A Pilot Study with Attachment-Based Family Therapy.","131":"Identity Statuses throughout Adolescence and Emerging Adulthood: A Large-Scale Study into Gender, Age, and Contextual Differences.","132":"A French Translation of the Pleasure Arousal Dominance (PAD) Semantic Differential Scale for the Measure of Affect and Drive.","133":"What Do You Believe In? French Translation of the FAD-Plus to Assess Beliefs in Free Will and Determinism and Their Relationship with Religious Practices and Personality Traits.","134":"Psychometric Properties of the BIS\/BAS Scales and the SPSRQ in Flemish Adolescents.","135":"The Development of Symbolic and Non-Symbolic Number Line Estimations: Three Developmental Accounts Contrasted Within Cross-Sectional and Longitudinal Data.","136":"The Effect of Corrective Feedback on Performance in Basic Cognitive Tasks: An Analysis of RT Components.","137":"Assessing Energy Intake in Daily Life: Signal-Contingent Smartphone Application Versus Event-Contingent Paper and Pencil Estimated Diet Diary.","138":"Servant Leadership, Organisational Citizenship Behavior and Creativity: The Mediating Role of Team-Member Exchange.","139":"Emerging Trends and Future Directions for the Field of Motivation Psychology: A Special Issue in Honor of Prof. Dr. Willy Lens.","140":"A Tribute to Dr. Willy Lens.","141":"Intrapersonal Achievement Goals and Underlying Reasons among Long Distance Runners: Their Relation with Race Experience, Self-Talk, and Running Time.","142":"Building on the Enriched Hierarchical Model of Achievement Motivation: Autonomous and Controlling Reasons Underlying Mastery Goals.","143":"Achievement Goals and their Underlying Goal Motivation: Does it Matter Why Sport Participants Pursue their Goals?","144":"Understanding Students' Instrumental Goals, Motivation Deficits and Achievement: Through the Lens of a Latent Profile Analysis.","145":"Future Time Perspective Connectedness to a Career: The Contextual Effects of Classroom Knowledge Building.","146":"The Portuguese Validation of the Basic Psychological Need Satisfaction and Frustration Scale: Concurrent and Longitudinal Relations to Well-being and Ill-being.","147":"Where Do the Cultural Differences in Dynamics of Controlling Parenting Lie? Adolescents as Active Agents in the Perception of and Coping with Parental Behavior.","148":"The Pursuit of Self-Esteem and Its Motivational Implications.","149":"Observer-Rated Alexithymia and its Relationship with the Five-Factor-Model of Personality.","150":"When School and Family Convey Different Cultural Messages: The Experience of Turkish Minority Group Members in France.","151":"The Impeding Role of Self-Critical Perfectionism on Therapeutic Alliance During Treatment and Eating Disorder Symptoms at Follow-up in Patients with an Eating Disorder.","152":"A Validation of the French Version of the Attitudes to Aging Questionnaire (AAQ): Factor Structure, Reliability and Validity.","153":"Attachment Styles, Perceived Stress and Social Support in a Malaysian Young Adults Sample.","154":"Validation of the Marijuana Effect Expectancies Questionnaire (MEEQ) in a Non-Clinical French-Speaking Adolescent Sample.","155":"Measures of Implicit Gender Attitudes May Exaggerate Differences in Underlying Associations among Chinese Urban and Rural Women.","156":"The Factor Structure, Predictors, and Percentile Norms of the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression (CES-D) Scale in the Dutch-speaking Adult Population of Belgium.","157":"Direct and Indirect Effects of Young Adults' Relationship Status on Life Satisfaction through Loneliness and Perceived Social Support.","158":"The Effects of Aging on the Components of Auditory - Verbal Short-Term Memory.","159":"Reliability and Validity Evidence of Scores on the French Version of the Questionnaire about Interpersonal Difficulties for Adolescents.","160":"Organizational Justice and Perceived Organizational Support: Impact on Negative Work-Home Interference and Well-being Outcomes.","161":"Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy for Trichotillomania: A Bayesian Case-Control Study.","162":"The Effect of Fearful Expressions on Multiple Face Tracking.","163":"Exploratory Study of Depressed Adolescents' Life Narratives.","164":"Validation and Psychometric Properties of the French Versions of the Environmental Reward Observation Scale and of the Reward Probability Index.","165":"Tasteful Brands: Products of Brands Perceived to be Warm and Competent Taste Subjectively Better.","166":"Explaining Entrepreneurial Status and Success from Personality: An Individual-Level Application of the Entrepreneurial Orientation Framework.","167":"Measuring Gratitude: A Comparative Validation of the Dutch Gratitude Questionnaire (GQ6) and Short Gratitude, Resentment, and Appreciation Test (SGRAT).","168":"Some Differences in Some: Examining Variability in the Interpretation of Scalars Using Latent Class Analysis.","169":"Experts' Misinterpretation of Box Plots - a Dual Processing Approach.","170":"More Money, More Trust? Target and Observer Differences in the Effectiveness of Financial Overcompensation to Restore Trust.","171":"'Some' Effects of Age, Task, Task Content and Working Memory on Scalar Implicature Processing.","172":"Greater Cognitive Effort for Better Learning: Tailoring an Instructional Design for Learners with Different Levels of Knowledge and Motivation.","173":"Better Neuronal Efficiency After Emotional Competences Training: An fMRI Study.","174":"The Role of Memory Traces Quality in Directed Forgetting: A Comparison of Young and Older Participants.","175":"Person Perception from Face and Voice.","176":"Mental imagery during daily life: Psychometric evaluation of the Spontaneous Use of Imagery Scale (SUIS).","177":"MEDIAL TEMPORAL LOBE CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUTURE THINKING: EVIDENCE FROM NEUROIMAGING AND AMNESIA.","178":"Family planning of Portuguese immigrants and integration in Belgium."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":"","84":"","85":"","86":"","87":"","88":"","89":"","90":"","91":"","92":"","93":"","94":"","95":"","96":"","97":"","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":"","102":"","103":"","104":"","105":"","106":"","107":"","108":"","109":"","110":"","111":"","112":"","113":"","114":"","115":"","116":"","117":"","118":"","119":"","120":"","121":"","122":"","123":"","124":"","125":"","126":"","127":"","128":"","129":"","130":"","131":"","132":"","133":"","134":"","135":"","136":"","137":"","138":"","139":"","140":"","141":"","142":"","143":"","144":"","145":"","146":"","147":"","148":"","149":"","150":"","151":"","152":"","153":"","154":"","155":"","156":"","157":"","158":"","159":"","160":"","161":"","162":"","163":"","164":"","165":"","166":"","167":"","168":"","169":"","170":"","171":"","172":"","173":"","174":"","175":"","176":"","177":"","178":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Psychologica Belgica","1":"Psychologica Belgica","2":"Psychologica Belgica","3":"Psychologica Belgica","4":"Psychologica Belgica","5":"Psychologica Belgica","6":"Psychologica Belgica","7":"Psychologica Belgica","8":"Psychologica Belgica","9":"Psychologica Belgica","10":"Psychologica Belgica","11":"Psychologica Belgica","12":"Psychologica Belgica","13":"Psychologica Belgica","14":"Psychologica Belgica","15":"Psychologica Belgica","16":"Psychologica Belgica","17":"Psychologica Belgica","18":"Psychologica Belgica","19":"Psychologica Belgica","20":"Psychologica Belgica","21":"Psychologica Belgica","22":"Psychologica Belgica","23":"Psychologica Belgica","24":"Psychologica Belgica","25":"Psychologica Belgica","26":"Psychologica Belgica","27":"Psychologica Belgica","28":"Psychologica Belgica","29":"Psychologica Belgica","30":"Psychologica Belgica","31":"Psychologica Belgica","32":"Psychologica Belgica","33":"Psychologica Belgica","34":"Psychologica Belgica","35":"Psychologica Belgica","36":"Psychologica Belgica","37":"Psychologica Belgica","38":"Psychologica Belgica","39":"Psychologica Belgica","40":"Psychologica Belgica","41":"Psychologica Belgica","42":"Psychologica Belgica","43":"Psychologica Belgica","44":"Psychologica Belgica","45":"Psychologica Belgica","46":"Psychologica Belgica","47":"Psychologica Belgica","48":"Psychologica Belgica","49":"Psychologica Belgica","50":"Psychologica Belgica","51":"Psychologica Belgica","52":"Psychologica Belgica","53":"Psychologica Belgica","54":"Psychologica Belgica","55":"Psychologica Belgica","56":"Psychologica Belgica","57":"Psychologica Belgica","58":"Psychologica Belgica","59":"Psychologica Belgica","60":"Psychologica Belgica","61":"Psychologica Belgica","62":"Psychologica Belgica","63":"Psychologica Belgica","64":"Psychologica Belgica","65":"Psychologica Belgica","66":"Psychologica Belgica","67":"Psychologica Belgica","68":"Psychologica Belgica","69":"Psychologica Belgica","70":"Psychologica Belgica","71":"Psychologica Belgica","72":"Psychologica Belgica","73":"Psychologica Belgica","74":"Psychologica Belgica","75":"Psychologica Belgica","76":"Psychologica Belgica","77":"Psychologica Belgica","78":"Psychologica Belgica","79":"Psychologica Belgica","80":"Psychologica Belgica","81":"Psychologica Belgica","82":"Psychologica Belgica","83":"Psychologica Belgica","84":"Psychologica Belgica","85":"Psychologica Belgica","86":"Psychologica Belgica","87":"Psychologica Belgica","88":"Psychologica Belgica","89":"Psychologica Belgica","90":"Psychologica Belgica","91":"Psychologica Belgica","92":"Psychologica Belgica","93":"Psychologica Belgica","94":"Psychologica Belgica","95":"Psychologica Belgica","96":"Psychologica Belgica","97":"Psychologica Belgica","98":"Psychologica Belgica","99":"Psychologica Belgica","100":"Psychologica Belgica","101":"Psychologica Belgica","102":"Psychologica Belgica","103":"Psychologica Belgica","104":"Psychologica Belgica","105":"Psychologica Belgica","106":"Psychologica Belgica","107":"Psychologica Belgica","108":"Psychologica Belgica","109":"Psychologica Belgica","110":"Psychologica Belgica","111":"Psychologica Belgica","112":"Psychologica Belgica","113":"Psychologica Belgica","114":"Psychologica Belgica","115":"Psychologica Belgica","116":"Psychologica Belgica","117":"Psychologica Belgica","118":"Psychologica Belgica","119":"Psychologica Belgica","120":"Psychologica Belgica","121":"Psychologica Belgica","122":"Psychologica Belgica","123":"Psychologica Belgica","124":"Psychologica Belgica","125":"Psychologica Belgica","126":"Psychologica Belgica","127":"Psychologica Belgica","128":"Psychologica Belgica","129":"Psychologica Belgica","130":"Psychologica Belgica","131":"Psychologica Belgica","132":"Psychologica Belgica","133":"Psychologica Belgica","134":"Psychologica Belgica","135":"Psychologica Belgica","136":"Psychologica Belgica","137":"Psychologica Belgica","138":"Psychologica Belgica","139":"Psychologica Belgica","140":"Psychologica Belgica","141":"Psychologica Belgica","142":"Psychologica Belgica","143":"Psychologica Belgica","144":"Psychologica Belgica","145":"Psychologica Belgica","146":"Psychologica Belgica","147":"Psychologica Belgica","148":"Psychologica Belgica","149":"Psychologica Belgica","150":"Psychologica Belgica","151":"Psychologica Belgica","152":"Psychologica Belgica","153":"Psychologica Belgica","154":"Psychologica Belgica","155":"Psychologica Belgica","156":"Psychologica Belgica","157":"Psychologica Belgica","158":"Psychologica Belgica","159":"Psychologica Belgica","160":"Psychologica Belgica","161":"Psychologica Belgica","162":"Psychologica Belgica","163":"Psychologica Belgica","164":"Psychologica Belgica","165":"Psychologica Belgica","166":"Psychologica Belgica","167":"Psychologica Belgica","168":"Psychologica Belgica","169":"Psychologica Belgica","170":"Psychologica Belgica","171":"Psychologica Belgica","172":"Psychologica Belgica","173":"Psychologica Belgica","174":"Psychologica Belgica","175":"Psychologica Belgica","176":"Psychologica Belgica","177":"Psychologica Belgica","178":"Psychologica Belgica"},"keyword":{"0":"BeliefsCOVID-19Comparative OptimismEgocentric Impact PerceptionExperiencePerceived ControlRisk EstimationRisk FactorsSelf-SuperioritySelf-Uniqueness","1":"COVID-19Media, Topic ModelingPsychologyText Analysis","2":"Historical analogiespoliticspredictionssocial cognition","3":"AnxietyCognitionDepressionFatigueMultiple Sclerosis","4":"French validationassessmentclimate changeclimate change anxietyeco-anxietypsychometrics","5":"COVID-19Social Identity Approachpsychological distancesocial groupsthreat perception","6":"ageingenclothed cognitionnursing homeuniformwhite coatwhite coat effect","7":"DepressionFactor analysisIrritabilityScale developmentSelf-report questionnaireTranslation","8":"COVID-19EmotionsEnvironmental SatisfactionLockdown","9":"client agencyclient characteristicsqualitative research methods","10":"COVID-19intimate relationshipsrelationship qualitywellbeing","11":"AnxietyCOVID-19Directed acyclic graphGADGaussian Graphical ModelLockdownNetwork Approach to PsychopathologyPandemicPsychopathologyWorry","12":"COVID-19Help-seekingIntentionKnowledgeTheory of Planned Behavior","13":"Dark Triad Dirty Dozenadult sampleillegitimate normsmeasurement invarianceself-control","14":"COVID-19Mindfulnessadolescentsdecenteringpsychological distress","15":"actionideationself-harmstresssuicidevulnerability","16":"COVID-19Socioeconomic statusattentional controlfinancial insecuritylockdownmental health inequalities","17":"adolescencefriendship qualitygendermoderationnon-suicidal self-injury","18":"DepressionPrioritizing positivityValuing happinessWell-being","19":"data availabilityeditorialeditorial boardopen accesspeer review","20":"COVID-19awecoastnostalgiawell-being","21":"autobiographical memoryfuture thinkinggoalsneuroimagingself","22":"COVID-19HAPAmotivation for deviationphysical distancing measures","23":"body imagebody shamepositive embodimentself-compassion","24":"discriminationinfrahumanizationinterpersonal treatmentpsychiatrysubstance","25":"ComplianceCovid-19EmotionsSatisfactionSweden","26":"Covid-19altruismcitizenship behaviorsgendersacrifice","27":"BayesianIntraparietal sulcusWorking memorytDCS","28":"COVID-19childrenpsychological impactsocietal lockdown","29":"action spaceamblyopiaegocentric distance perceptionpersonal spacevista space","30":"COVID-19experience sampling methods, psychological well-beingmental health crisisresilience","31":"Virtual realityneurorehabilitationrehabilitationreviewstroke","32":"Episodic MemoryFalse MemoryFollow-upOSAPositive Airway PressureVerbal Memory","33":"dehumanizationemotionsmetadehumanizationsexual objectification","34":"adolescenceoptimismpositive mental healthpsychometric propertieswell-being","35":"Implicit adult attachment styleanxious attachmentavoidant attachmentemotional well-beingpsychological well-beingpsychopathology","36":"AdolescentsExpectationsPerceived parental supportPsychological well-beingRomantic relations","37":"SARS-CoV-2Theory of Planned Behaviorbehavioral changeemotionshealth behaviorspandemic","38":"cognitive controlmetacognitionsubjective experiences","39":"generalizability theoryobjectificationphysical appearancereliabilityself-objectification","40":"Behavioral activationdepressionpsychometric properties","41":"Dutch vocabularyindividual differencesreceptive vocabularyspoken word comprehensionvocabulary testword knowledge","42":"eating disordersnon-suicidal self-injurypathological buyingtemperament","43":"descriptive leadershipethical leadershipnormative leadershipsport ethicssport integritystakeholder perspective","44":"childhood traumainterpersonal dynamicspsychodynamic therapysingle case studytherapy process and outcome","45":"OCDObsessionscultureintrusive thoughtsmeasurement invariance","46":"body dissatisfactioneating disorder symptomatologyemerging adulthoodidentity formationmid-to-late adolescence","47":"IPANATimplicit affectpsychometric properties","48":"AdolescenceAttachmentDepressive SymptomsInformation ProcessingMiddle Childhood","49":"auditory-verbal attentionauditory-verbal working memoryearly adulthoodlanguage proficiencymultilingualismvisuo-spatial attention","50":"assessmentavoidancebehavioursbeliefsexam anxietypreparation","51":"gendergender differencesgender ideologynegotiation","52":"ZKA-PQcross-cultural psychologydark triadpersonality traitsproactive attitudeself-perceived employability","53":"adolescentsdepressionlearning opportunitieslife satisfactionpart-time job","54":"Cognitive Avoidance Questionnairebroodingcognitive avoidancepsychometric evaluation","55":"AffectBalanced time perspectiveLife satisfactionTime perspectiveWell-beingZimbardo Time Perspective Inventory","56":"InfertilityWHO-5 Well-Being Indexanxietydepressiondyadic approach","57":"culturemutual obligationspsychological contractqualitativesocial exchange","58":"Item Response TheoryLearning AnalyticsMassive Open Online CoursesPsychometrics","59":"anhedoniabifactor model analysisdepression","60":"Pleasure Arousal Dominance modelaffectcognitive dissonancecounter-attitudinalemotionhypocrisy","61":"Chronic Kidney DiseaseCoping StrategiesPersonality StylesSatisfaction with life","62":"U-MICSadult attachmentidentityparental identityperfectionism","63":"Flandersadolescentdevelopmentemerging adulthoodfactor analysisidentityyoung adult","64":"","65":"AdolescentsCyber bullyingCyber victimizationMoral disengagementSubmissive behavior","66":"action controlemotionimpulsive actionimpulsivity","67":"Bilingualismattentional functioningearly immersion educationexecutive functioningimproved selective auditory skills","68":"deviancemeasure validitymeasurement scalenormativitypersonal orientation","69":"GDPRanonymitydata accessibilitymethodsopen scienceprivacypsychology","70":"Science reformmeta-sciencequestionable research practicesreplication crisis","71":"high performance work systemsjob engagementjob strainwork-to-family conflictwork-to-family enrichment","72":"Archival DataOpen ScienceReplicabilityTransparency","73":"Open AccessOpen DataOpen MethodologyOpen ScienceOpen SourceTransparency","74":"megastudyopen accessword recognition","75":"documentationreplicationreproducibilityscreen recording","76":"assimilationdual identityintention to quitjob satisfactionminoritymulticulturalism","77":"diary studyempathypsychological detachmentsmartphone usetelepressure","78":"endinghealth carepsychotherapyterminationtime limit","79":"domain-generalitylanguagemusicserial orderworking memory","80":"Mental RepresentationsPrimingSocial Information ProcessingTeacher-Student Relationships","81":"alcohol use disorderalcohol-use disordersbinge drinkingelectrophysiologyneuroimagingneuropsychology","82":"aggressiondaily affectearly adolescenceinternalizing symptomspeersself-esteem","83":"sexual orientationvisibility managementwork environment","84":"Flemish normative dataage-associated memory impairmentselective remindingverbal memory","85":"Fatherhoodcertaintyparent-child resemblancepaternityprobability","86":"ethnic diversityideological climatesintergroup relations","87":"attention controlattentional bias for threatneuromodulationprefrontal cortextranscranial direct current stimulation","88":"ComparisonEuropean countriesMotivationSecondary school","89":"Conflict detectionLogical complexityLogical intuition","90":"cross-cultural adjustmentexpatriateshelp-seeking sampleinstrumental supportsocial supportsocio-emotional support","91":"inpatient psychotherapymixed methods researchnaturalistic researchpatient perspectivepsychotherapy outcome","92":"between-scenarios order effectmoral judgementrecency effecttransfer effectwithin-scenario order effect","93":"borderline personalityeating disorderpsychopathologyself-harm","94":"Executive functionchaosexternalizing behaviorspreschoolerstemperament","95":"Paul Eelenbehavior therapyconditioninglegacy","96":"psychology of learning","97":"Behaviour therapylearning theories","98":"empathylearning principlestherapeutic relationship","99":"functional analysis","100":"interview","101":"Monty Hall dilemmaSystematic reviewchoicedecisionprobability","102":"alertingcognitive flexibilitylanguage-switching frequencyresponse inhibition","103":"affectconditional regardeagerness to learnexperimentself-esteem","104":"PRMQassessmentmemory complaintsprospective memorypsychometric study","105":"academic achievementfirst year at the universityhigher educationmotivationtransition","106":"Chinagritlife satisfactionmediationself-esteem","107":"Big FiveEarly Maladaptive SchemasReliabilityValidityYoung Schema Questionnaire","108":"Belgian Association of Psychological SciencesOpen accessPsychologica BelgicaUbiquity Press","109":"CyclismFlemish identityethno-cultural identity representationflandrienregional exclusivity","110":"AdolescentsAttitude towards alonenessNon-Suicidal Self-InjuryParent-related lonelinessPeer-related loneliness","111":"adolescencecommitmentemerging adulthoodexplorationidentity","112":"IRT factor analysisself-compassionself-compassionate respondingself-uncompassionate respondingtwo-tier model","113":"Innovative work behaviouridea generationidea implementationjob insecuritypsychological contract breach","114":"Implicit measuresbody dissatisfactioneating disorderrelational responding task","115":"authoritarian ideologycognitive styleintergroup emotionsreconciliation","116":"German-speaking communityIdentificationconflict perceptiondisidentificationlinguistic conflict","117":"action tendenciescollective victimhoodingroup identityintergroup emotionsnon-violent conflict","118":"anti-Walloon prejudiceanti-immigrant prejudicegroup-focused enmityintergroup relationsperceived threatstructural equation modeling","119":"Anti-immigrant prejudiceFlandersGeneralized prejudicePropensity to voteRegional prejudiceWallonia","120":"Amnesty for collaborationBelgiumCollective memoriesIntergroup relationsSocial identity World war II","121":"Belgiumdistributive justiceintergroup relationslanguagemulti-ethnic conflict","122":"Belgiumintergroup relationslinguistic conflictreconciliation","123":"arithmeticcentral executivecomputational estimationprimary school childrenstrategy use","124":"affectemotional Stroop taskpaternalistic stereotypessocial sharing of emotions","125":"Milgram paradigmobedienceretaliationsocial influence","126":"adjustingaffective styleconcealingemotion regulationexploratory structural equations modelingtolerating","127":"Parental mediationadolescentsinternet usemulti-actor","128":"MonitoringNeuropsychologyNoceboPlaceboResponse expectancySelf-transcendence","129":"conservatismeuthanasiamoral foundationsprosocialityreligion","130":"AcceptabilityAttachment-Based Family TherapyChild Welfare SystemEvidence-Based PracticeFeasibilityImplementation","131":"adolescencecommitmentemerging adulthoodexplorationidentity","132":"ArousalDominanceFrench validationPleasureSemantic Differential","133":"DeterminismFAD-plusFree willReligion","134":"adolescenceassessmentfactor analysisreinforcement sensitivity theory","135":"cognitive developmentlog-to-linear accountnumber line estimationnumerical cognitionproportion judgment accounttwolin-to-lin transformation","136":"ex-Gaussian componentsfeedbackmatching taskstroop","137":"Between-meal snackingEcological Momentary Assessment (EMA)Estimated Diet DiaryEvent-contingentExperience Sampling Method (ESM)Signal-contingent","138":"CreativityOCBServant LeadershipTMX","139":"","140":"","141":"Achievement Goal ApproachBasic Need SatisfactionFlowIntrapersonal GoalsSelf-Determination TheorySelf-talk","142":"achievement goalsautonomous reasonscontrolling reasonsfear of failureneed for achievementneeds satisfaction","143":"achievement goalsautonomous motivationcontrolled motivationperformancepositive affectsport satisfaction","144":"Future orientationGoal regulationInstrumental goalsMultiple goals","145":"Future Time PerspectiveMulti-Level modelingSelf-Regulated learning","146":"Basic Psychological NeedsEmotional SymptomatologyNew Basic Psychological Need Satisfaction and Frustration ScaleSelf-Determination TheoryWell-being","147":"Autonomy-SupportControlCopingCross-culturalGuilt-inductionParentingPsychological ControlPsychological needsSelf-Determination Theory","148":"Self-Determination Theorycontingent self-esteemengagementintrojectionmotivation","149":"alexithymiafive-factor modelobserver-ratingpersonalityself-report","150":"School-cultureTurkish-minoritycollectivismindividualismvalues","151":"Self-criticismeating disorder patientstherapeutic alliancetherapeutic change","152":"Attitudes to Aging Questionnaire (AAQ)agingfactor structurereliabilityvalidity","153":"Attachment styleethnicitygenderreligionself-perceived stresssocial support","154":"Marijuana Effect Expectancies Questionnairecannabisexpectanciespsychometric propertiesteenagers","155":"automatic associationsgender attitudeimplicit attitudemultinomial modelself-regulation","156":"MIMICdepressionpercentile normssecond-order factorthe CES-D","157":"Life satisfactionLonelinessPerceived social supportRelationship statusYoung adults","158":"Elderly participantsauditory-verbal short-term memoryhearing lossitem informationorder information","159":"AdolescenceFrench validationInterpersonal anxietySelf-reportSocial fears","160":"negative work-home interferenceorganizational justiceperceived organizational supportwell-being","161":"Bayesian approachHair-pullingMindfulness-based interventionsSingle-caseTrichotillomania","162":"AttentionFearful expressionHigh-level social cognitionMultiple face tracking","163":"Adolescentdepressiondepressive moodlife narrativestextual data analysis","164":"Environmental Reward Observation ScaleReward Probability Indexenvironmental rewardpsychometric propertiesvalidation","165":"brand perceptionsubjective tastewarmth &amp; competence","166":"Entrepreneurial OrientationEntrepreneurial statusEntrepreneurshipPersonalityVenture growth","167":"Dutchgratitudelife satisfactionnegative affectpositive affectvalidation","168":"interindividual differenceslatent class analysisscalar inferences","169":"Box plotsDual process theoriesExpertsHeuristic reasoning","170":"financial compensationtarget-observer differencestrust repair","171":"agescalar implicaturetasktask contentworking memory","172":"","173":"emotional competenciesemotional regulationfMRIprefrontal cortextraining","174":"agingdirected forgettinginhibitionmemory","175":"","176":"factor analysismental imageryquestionnairevalidation","177":"","178":"Acceptor CharacteristicsAttitudeBehaviorBelgiumContraceptionContraceptive AvailabilityContraceptive Methods ChosenContraceptive UsageCultural BackgroundDemographic FactorsDeveloped CountriesEducationEuropeFamily PlanningFertility RateInternational MigrationKnowledgeMigrationPopulationPopulation CharacteristicsPopulation DynamicsPsychological FactorsReproductive Control AgentsResearch ReportSex EducationSocioeconomic FactorsWestern Europe"},"pmid":{"0":35510131,"1":35510130,"2":35414945,"3":35414944,"4":35414943,"5":35414942,"6":35291725,"7":35106182,"8":35087679,"9":35087677,"10":35087676,"11":35070347,"12":35070346,"13":35035986,"14":34900325,"15":34900324,"16":34824863,"17":34824862,"18":34824861,"19":34691751,"20":34621529,"21":34611494,"22":34540263,"23":34394951,"24":34394950,"25":34394949,"26":34394948,"27":34277028,"28":34249370,"29":34221439,"30":34221438,"31":34131490,"32":33815813,"33":33815812,"34":33777405,"35":33777404,"36":33747535,"37":33664975,"38":33614105,"39":33614104,"40":33598302,"41":33552531,"42":33442483,"43":33362936,"44":33178438,"45":33117552,"46":33042564,"47":32983549,"48":32944262,"49":32944261,"50":32864151,"51":32774873,"52":32742708,"53":32704378,"54":32676198,"55":32607249,"56":32587747,"57":32523710,"58":32477583,"59":32269829,"60":32257363,"61":32166039,"62":32140240,"63":32110419,"64":32110418,"65":31915528,"66":31915527,"67":31709070,"68":31709069,"69":31576230,"70":31565236,"71":31523445,"72":31497308,"73":31497307,"74":31367458,"75":31367457,"76":31367456,"77":31328018,"78":31328017,"79":31328016,"80":31328015,"81":31328014,"82":31328013,"83":31328012,"84":31328011,"85":31328010,"86":31328009,"87":31328008,"88":31328007,"89":30524748,"90":30479823,"91":30479822,"92":30479821,"93":30479820,"94":30479819,"95":30479818,"96":30479817,"97":30479816,"98":30479815,"99":30479814,"100":30479813,"101":30479812,"102":30479811,"103":30479810,"104":30479809,"105":30479808,"106":30479807,"107":30479806,"108":30479805,"109":30479804,"110":30479803,"111":30479802,"112":30479801,"113":30479800,"114":30479799,"115":30479797,"116":30479796,"117":30479795,"118":30479794,"119":30479793,"120":30479792,"121":30479791,"122":30479790,"123":30479789,"124":30479788,"125":30479787,"126":30479786,"127":30479785,"128":30479784,"129":30479454,"130":30479453,"131":30479452,"132":30479451,"133":30479450,"134":30479448,"135":30479447,"136":30479446,"137":30479445,"138":30479444,"139":30479443,"140":30479442,"141":30479441,"142":30479440,"143":30479439,"144":30479438,"145":30479437,"146":30479436,"147":30479435,"148":30479434,"149":30479433,"150":30479432,"151":30479431,"152":30479430,"153":30479429,"154":30479428,"155":30479427,"156":30479426,"157":30479424,"158":30479423,"159":30479422,"160":30479421,"161":30479420,"162":30479419,"163":30479418,"164":30479417,"165":30479416,"166":30479415,"167":30479414,"168":30479413,"169":30479411,"170":30479410,"171":30479409,"172":30479408,"173":30479407,"174":30479406,"175":30479405,"176":26290615,"177":23447709,"178":12309611},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2022,"2":2022,"3":2022,"4":2022,"5":2022,"6":2022,"7":2022,"8":2022,"9":2022,"10":2022,"11":2021,"12":2021,"13":2021,"14":2021,"15":2021,"16":2021,"17":2021,"18":2021,"19":2021,"20":2021,"21":2021,"22":2021,"23":2021,"24":2021,"25":2021,"26":2021,"27":2021,"28":2021,"29":2021,"30":2021,"31":2021,"32":2021,"33":2021,"34":2021,"35":2021,"36":2021,"37":2021,"38":2021,"39":2021,"40":2021,"41":2021,"42":2020,"43":2020,"44":2020,"45":2020,"46":2020,"47":2020,"48":2020,"49":2020,"50":2020,"51":2020,"52":2020,"53":2020,"54":2020,"55":2020,"56":2020,"57":2020,"58":2020,"59":2020,"60":2020,"61":2020,"62":2020,"63":2020,"64":2020,"65":2020,"66":2020,"67":2019,"68":2019,"69":2019,"70":2019,"71":2019,"72":2019,"73":2019,"74":2019,"75":2019,"76":2019,"77":2019,"78":2019,"79":2019,"80":2019,"81":2019,"82":2019,"83":2019,"84":2019,"85":2019,"86":2019,"87":2019,"88":2019,"89":2018,"90":2018,"91":2018,"92":2018,"93":2018,"94":2018,"95":2018,"96":2018,"97":2018,"98":2018,"99":2018,"100":2018,"101":2018,"102":2018,"103":2018,"104":2018,"105":2018,"106":2018,"107":2018,"108":2018,"109":2018,"110":2018,"111":2018,"112":2018,"113":2018,"114":2018,"115":2017,"116":2017,"117":2017,"118":2017,"119":2017,"120":2017,"121":2017,"122":2017,"123":2017,"124":2017,"125":2017,"126":2017,"127":2017,"128":2017,"129":2017,"130":2017,"131":2017,"132":2017,"133":2017,"134":2016,"135":2016,"136":2016,"137":2016,"138":2016,"139":2016,"140":2016,"141":2016,"142":2016,"143":2016,"144":2016,"145":2016,"146":2016,"147":2016,"148":2016,"149":2016,"150":2016,"151":2016,"152":2016,"153":2016,"154":2016,"155":2016,"156":2016,"157":2015,"158":2015,"159":2015,"160":2015,"161":2015,"162":2015,"163":2015,"164":2015,"165":2015,"166":2015,"167":2015,"168":2015,"169":2014,"170":2014,"171":2014,"172":2014,"173":2014,"174":2014,"175":2014,"176":2014,"177":2012,"178":1978}}