{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54,"55":55,"56":56,"57":57,"58":58,"59":59,"60":60,"61":61,"62":62,"63":63,"64":64,"65":65,"66":66,"67":67,"68":68,"69":69,"70":70,"71":71,"72":72,"73":73,"74":74,"75":75,"76":76,"77":77,"78":78,"79":79,"80":80,"81":81,"82":82,"83":83,"84":84,"85":85,"86":86,"87":87,"88":88,"89":89,"90":90,"91":91,"92":92,"93":93,"94":94,"95":95,"96":96,"97":97,"98":98,"99":99,"100":100,"101":101},"abstracttext":{"0":"Cilia emanate from basal bodies just underneath the cell membrane. Basal bodies must withstand torque from the ciliary beat and be appropriately spaced for cilia to beat in metachronal waves. Basal body rootlets provide stability for motile cilia. Paramecium has three. Our focus is on the largest one, the striated rootlet (SR). Paramecium basal bodies align in straight rows. Previously we found a potential role for the SR in this alignment. Here we present a phylogeny of the Paramecium homologs of the SF-Assemblin gene of the SR of Chlamydomonas, and the organization of these genes. We describe the phenotypes from RNA interference (RNAi) silencing of genes and gene groups. Phenotypes of the RNAi depletions were characterized by immunofluorescence (IF), electron microscopy, and mass spectrometry. We found 30 genes for Paramecium SF-Assemblin homologs (SFA) organized into 13 Paralog Groups (further categorized in five Structural Groups). Representatives of Paralog Groups were found in the SRs. Silencing the transcripts of any of the Structural Groups correlates with misaligned rows of basal bodies, SRs, and cortical units. The silencing of Structural Groups was key and gave us the ability to systematically disrupt SR structures and cell surface organization. Silencing of SFA genes and Paralog Groups shows no effects on the SR or the cell surface organization. Silencing of the larger Structural Groups has an enormous impact on rows of basal bodies, SRs and cortical units, and SR striations, and length. Misaligned basal bodies have cilia causing the cells to swim in abnormal paths. ","1":null,"2":"Mainzer-Saldino syndrome (MZSDS) is a skeletal ciliopathy and part of the short-rib thoracic dysplasia (SRTD) group of ciliary disorders. The main characteristics of MZSDS are short limbs, mild narrow thorax, blindness, and renal failure. Thus far, variants in two genes are associated with MZSDS: IFT140, and IFT172. In this study, we describe a 1-year-old girl presenting with mild skeletal abnormalities, Leber congenital amaurosis, and bilateral hearing difficulties. For establishing an accurate diagnosis, we combined clinical, molecular, and functional analyses. We performed diagnostic whole-exome sequencing (WES) analysis to determine the genetic cause of the disease and analyzed two gene panels, containing all currently known genes in vision disorders, and in hearing impairment. Upon detection of the likely causative variants, ciliary phenotyping was performed in patient urine-derived renal epithelial cells (URECs) and rescue experiments were performed in CRISPR\/Cas9-derived Ift140 knock out cells to determine the pathogenicity of the detected variants in vitro. Cilium morphology, cilium length, and intraflagellar transport (IFT) were evaluated by immunocytochemistry. Diagnostic WES revealed two novel compound heterozygous variants in IFT140, encoding IFT140. Thorough investigation of WES data did not reveal any variants in candidate genes associated with hearing impairment. Patient-derived URECs revealed an accumulation of IFT-B protein IFT88 at the ciliary tip in 41% of the cells indicative of impaired retrograde IFT, while this was absent in cilia from control URECs. Furthermore, transfection of CRISPR\/Cas9-derived Ift140 knock out cells with an IFT140 construct containing the patient mutation p.Tyr923Asp resulted in a significantly higher percentage of IFT88 tip accumulation than transfection with the wild-type IFT140 construct. By combining the clinical, genetic, and functional data from this study, we could conclude that the patient has SRTD9, also called Mainzer-Saldino syndrome, caused by variants in IFT140. We suggest the possibility that variants in IFT140 may underlie hearing impairment. Moreover, we show that urine provides an excellent source to obtain patient-derived cells in a non-invasive manner to study the pathogenicity of variants detected by genetic testing. ","3":"The mechanisms by which primary cilia affect glioma pathogenesis are unclear. Depending on the glioma cell line, primary cilia can promote or inhibit tumor development. Here, we used piggyBac-mediated transgenesis to generate patient-derived glioblastoma (GBM) cell lines that stably express Arl13b:GFP in their cilia. This allowed us to visualize and analyze the behavior of cilia and ciliated cells during live GBM cell proliferation. Time-lapse imaging of Arl13b:GFP+ cilia revealed their dynamic behaviors, including distal tip excision into the extracellular milieu. Recent studies of non-cancerous cells indicate that this process occurs during the G0 phase, prior to cilia resorption and cell cycle re-entry, and requires ciliary recruitment of F-actin and actin regulators. Similarly, we observed ciliary buds associated with Ki67- cells as well as scattered F-actin+ cilia, suggesting that quiescent GBM cells may also utilize an actin network-based mechanism for ciliary tip excision. Notably, we found that the proliferation of ciliated GBM cells was promoted by exposing them to conditioned media obtained from ciliated cell cultures when compared to conditioned media collected from cilia-defective cell cultures (depleted in either KIF3A or IFT88 using CRISPR\/Cas9). These results suggest that GBM cilia may release mitogenic vesicles carrying factors that promote tumor cell proliferation. Although Arl13b is implicated in tumor growth, our data suggest that Arl13b released from GBM cilia does not mediate tumor cell proliferation. Collectively, our results indicate that ciliary vesicles may represent a novel mode of intercellular communication within tumors that contributes to GBM pathogenesis. The mitogenic capacity of GBM ciliary vesicles and the molecular mediators of this phenomenon requires further investigation. ","4":null,"5":null,"6":"Cilia are specialized, hair-like structures that project from the cell bodies of eukaryotic cells. With increased understanding of the distribution and functions of various types of cilia, interest in these organelles is accelerating. To effectively use this great expansion in knowledge, this information must be made digitally accessible and available for large-scale analytical and computational investigation. Capture and integration of knowledge about cilia into existing knowledge bases, thus providing the ability to improve comparative genomic data analysis, is the objective of this work. We focused on the capture of information about cilia as studied in the laboratory mouse, a primary model of human biology. The workflow developed establishes a standard for capture of comparative functional data relevant to human biology. We established the 310 closest mouse orthologs of the 302 human genes defined in the SYSCILIA Gold Standard set of ciliary genes. For the mouse genes, we identified biomedical literature for curation and used Gene Ontology (GO) curation paradigms to provide functional annotations from these publications. Employing a methodology for comprehensive capture of experimental data about cilia genes in structured, digital form, we established a workflow for curation of experimental literature detailing molecular function and roles of cilia proteins starting with the mouse orthologs of the human SYSCILIA gene set. We worked closely with the GO Consortium ontology development editors and the SYSCILIA Consortium to improve the representation of ciliary biology within the GO. During the time frame of the ontology improvement project, we have fully curated 134 of these 310 mouse genes, resulting in an increase in the number of ciliary and other experimental annotations. We have improved the GO annotations available for mouse genes orthologous to the human genes in the SYSCILIA Consortium's Gold Standard set. In addition, ciliary terminology in the GO itself was improved in collaboration with GO ontology developers and the SYSCILIA Consortium. These improvements to the GO terms for the functions and roles of ciliary proteins, along with the increase in annotations of the corresponding genes, enhance the representation of ciliary processes and localizations and improve access to these data during large-scale bioinformatic analyses. ","7":"Primary cilia mediate signal transduction by acting as an organizing scaffold for receptors, signalling proteins and ion channels. Ciliated olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) organize olfactory receptors and ion channels on cilia and generate a calcium influx as a primary signal in odourant detection. In the zebrafish olfactory placode, ciliated OSNs and microvillus OSNs constitute the major OSN cell types with distinct odourant sensitivity. Using transgenic expression of the calcium biosensor GCaMP5 in OSNs, we analysed sensory cilia-dependent odour responses in live zebrafish, at individual cell resolution. oval\/ift88 mutant and ift172 knockdown zebrafish were compared with wild-type siblings to establish ciliated OSN sensitivity to different classes of odourants. oval\/ift88 mutant and ift172 knockdown zebrafish showed fewer and severely shortened OSN cilia without a reduction in OSN number. The fraction of responding OSNs and response amplitudes to bile acids and food odour, both sensed by ciliated OSNs, were significantly reduced in ift88 mutants and ift172-deficient embryos, while the amino acids responses were not significantly changed. Our approach presents a quantitative model for studying sensory cilia signalling using zebrafish OSNs. Our results also implicate ift172-deficiency as a novel cause of hyposmia, a reduced sense of smell, highlighting the value of directly assaying sensory cilia signalling in vivo and supporting the idea that hyposmia can be used as a diagnostic indicator of ciliopathies. ","8":"Recent research into ciliary structure and function provides important insights into inherited diseases termed ciliopathies and other cilia-related disorders. This wealth of knowledge needs to be translated into a computational representation to be fully exploitable by the research community. To this end, members of the Gene Ontology (GO) and SYSCILIA Consortia have worked together to improve representation of ciliary substructures and processes in GO. Members of the SYSCILIA and Gene Ontology Consortia suggested additions and changes to GO, to reflect new knowledge in the field. The project initially aimed to improve coverage of ciliary parts, and was then broadened to cilia-related biological processes. Discussions were documented in a public tracker. We engaged the broader cilia community via direct consultation and by referring to the literature. Ontology updates were implemented via ontology editing tools. So far, we have created or modified 127 GO terms representing parts and processes related to eukaryotic cilia\/flagella or prokaryotic flagella. A growing number of biological pathways are known to involve cilia, and we continue to incorporate this knowledge in GO. The resulting expansion in GO allows more precise representation of experimentally derived knowledge, and SYSCILIA and GO biocurators have created 199 annotations to 50 human ciliary proteins. The revised ontology was also used to curate mouse proteins in a collaborative project. The revised GO and annotations, used in comparative 'before and after' analyses of representative ciliary datasets, improve enrichment results significantly. Our work has resulted in a broader and deeper coverage of ciliary composition and function. These improvements in ontology and protein annotation will benefit all users of GO enrichment analysis tools, as well as the ciliary research community, in areas ranging from microscopy image annotation to interpretation of high-throughput studies. We welcome feedback to further enhance the representation of cilia biology in GO. ","9":"The free-living nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, is a widely used genetic model organism for investigations into centriole and cilia biology. Only sensory neurons are ciliated in C. elegans; morphologically diverse cilia in these neurons are nucleated by basal bodies located at the dendritic endings. C. elegans centrioles comprise a central tube with a symmetric array of nine singlet microtubules. These singlet microtubules remodel in a subset of sensory neurons to form the doublet microtubules of the basal bodies. Following initiation of ciliogenesis, the central tube, but not the outer centriole wall, of the basal body degenerates. Recent ultrastructural characterization of basal body architecture and remodeling have laid the foundation for future studies into mechanisms underlying different aspects of basal body genesis, remodeling, and intracellular positioning.","10":"Cilia appear to be derived, evolutionarily, from structures present in the ancestral (pre-ciliary) eukaryote, such as microtubule-based vesicle trafficking and chromosome segregation systems. Experimental observations suggest that the ciliary gate, the molecular complex that mediates the selective molecular movement between cytoplasmic and ciliary compartments, shares features with nuclear pores. Our hypothesis is that this shared transport machinery is at least partially responsible for the observation that a number of ciliary and ciliogenesis-associated proteins are found within nuclei where they play roles in the regulation of gene expression, DNA repair, and nuclear import and export. Recognizing the potential for such nuclear roles is critical when considering the phenotypic effects that arise from the mutational modification of ciliary proteins.","11":"Skeletal ciliopathies comprise a spectrum of ciliary malfunction disorders that have a profound effect on the skeleton. Most common among these disorders is short rib polydactyly syndrome (SRPS), a recessively inherited perinatal lethal condition characterized by a long narrow chest, markedly shortened long bones, polydactyly and, often, multi-organ system involvement. SRPS shows extensive locus heterogeneity with mutations in genes encoding proteins that participate in cilia formation and\/or function. Herein we describe mutations in IFT43, a satellite member of the retrograde IFT-A complex, that produce a form of SRPS with unusual bending of the ribs and appendicular bones. These newly described IFT43 mutations disrupted cilia formation, produced abnormalities in cartilage growth plate architecture thus contributing to altered endochondral ossification. We further show that the IFT43 SRPS phenotype is similar to SRPS resulting from mutations in the gene encoding IFT121 (WDR35), a direct interactor with IFT43. This study defines a new IFT43-associated phenotype, identifying an additional locus for SRPS. The data demonstrate that IFT43 is essential for ciliogenesis and that the mutations disrupted the orderly proliferation and differentiation of growth plate chondrocytes, resulting in a severe effect on endochondral ossification and mineralization. Phenotypic similarities with SRPS cases resulting from mutations in the gene encoding the IFT43 direct interacting protein IFT121 suggests that similar mechanisms may be disrupted by defects in these two IFT-A satellite interactors. ","12":"The development of a ciliary axoneme requires the correct docking of the basal body at cytoplasmic vesicles or plasma membrane. In the multiciliated cell Paramecium, three conserved proteins, FOR20, Centrin 2, and Centrin 3 participate in this process, FOR20 and Centrin 2 being involved in the assembly of the transition zone. We investigated the function of two other evolutionary conserved proteins, OFD1 and VFL3, likely involved in this process. In Paramecium tetraurelia, a single gene encodes OFD1, while four genes encode four isoforms of VFL3, grouped into two families, VFL3-A and VFL3-B. Depletion of OFD1 and the sole VFL3-A family impairs basal body docking. Loss of OFD1 yields a defective assembly of the basal body distal part. Like FOR20, OFD1 is recruited early during basal body assembly and localizes at the transition zone between axoneme and membrane at the level of the microtubule doublets. While the recruitment of OFD1 and Centrin 2 proceed independently, the localizations of OFD1 and FOR20 at the basal body are interdependent. In contrast, in VFL3-A depleted cells, the unanchored basal bodies harbor a fully organized distal part but display an abnormal distribution of their associated rootlets which mark their rotational asymmetry. VFL3-A, which is required for the recruitment of Centrin 3, is transiently present near the basal bodies at an early step of their duplication. VFL3-A localizes at the junction between the striated rootlet and the basal body. Our results demonstrate the conserved role of OFD1 in the anchoring mechanisms of motile cilia and establish its relations with FOR20 and Centrin 2. They support the hypothesis of its association with microtubule doublets. They suggest that the primary defect of VFL3 depletion is a loss of the rotational asymmetry of the basal body which specifies the sites of assembly of the appendages which guide the movement of basal bodies toward the cell surface. The localization of VFL3 outside of the basal body suggests that extrinsic factors could control this asymmetry. ","13":null,"14":"La-related protein 6 (LARP6) is an evolutionally conserved RNA-binding protein. Vertebrate LARP6 binds the 5' stem-loop found in mRNAs encoding type I collagen to regulate their translation, but other target mRNAs and additional functions for LARP6 are unknown. The aim of this study was to elucidate an additional function of LARP6 and to evaluate the importance of its function during development. To uncover the role of LARP6 in development, we utilized Morpholino Oligos to deplete LARP6 protein in Xenopus embryos. Then, embryonic phenotypes and ciliary structures of LAPR6 morphants were examined. To identify the molecular mechanism underlying ciliogenesis regulated by LARP6, we tested the expression level of cilia-related genes, which play important roles in ciliogenesis, by RT-PCR or whole mount in situ hybridization (WISH). We knocked down LARP6 in Xenopus embryos and found neural tube closure defects. LARP6 mutant, which compromises the collagen synthesis, could rescue these defects. Neural tube closure defects are coincident with lack of cilia, antenna-like cellular organelles with motility- or sensory-related functions, in the neural tube. The absence of cilia at the epidermis was also observed in LARP6 morphants, and this defect was due to the absence of basal bodies which are formed from centrioles and required for ciliary assembly. In the process of multi-ciliated cell (MCC) differentiation, mcidas, which activates the transcription of genes required for centriole formation during ciliogenesis, could partially restore MCCs in LARP6 morphants. In addition, LARP6 likely controls the expression of mcidas in a Notch-independent manner. La-related protein 6 is involved in ciliated cell differentiation during development by controlling the expression of cilia-related genes including mcidas. This LARP6 function involves a mechanism that is distinct from its established role in binding to collagen mRNAs and regulating their translation. ","15":null,"16":"The discovery of disease pathogenesis requires systematic agnostic screening of multiple homeostatic processes that may become deregulated. We illustrate this principle in the evaluation and diagnosis of a 5-year-old boy with Joubert syndrome type 10 (JBTS10). He carried the OFD1 mutation p.Gln886Lysfs*2 (NM_003611.2: c.2656del) and manifested features of Joubert syndrome. We integrated exome sequencing, MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry analyses of plasma and cultured dermal fibroblasts glycomes, and full clinical evaluation of the proband. Analyses of cilia formation and lectin staining were performed by immunofluorescence. Measurement of cellular nucleotide sugar levels was performed with high-performance anion-exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection. Statistical analyses utilized the Student's and Fisher's exact t tests. Glycome analyses of plasma and cultured dermal fibroblasts identified abnormal N- and O-linked glycosylation profiles. These findings replicated in two unrelated males with OFD1 mutations. Cultured fibroblasts from affected individuals had a defect in ciliogenesis. The proband's fibroblasts also had an abnormally elevated nuclear sialylation signature and increased total cellular levels of CMP-sialic acid. Ciliogenesis and each glycosylation anomaly were rescued by expression of wild-type OFD1. The rescue of ciliogenesis and glycosylation upon reintroduction of WT OFD1 suggests that both contribute to the pathogenesis of JBTS10. ","17":"This is a history of cilia research before and after the discovery of intraflagellar transport (IFT) and the link between primary cilia ciliogenesis and polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Before IFT, ca. the beginning of the new millennium, although sensory and primary cilia were well described, research was largely focused on motile cilia, their structure, movement, and biogenesis. After IFT and the link to PKD, although work on motile cilia has continued to progress, research on primary cilia has exploded, leading to new insights into the role of cilia in cell signaling and development. Genomics, proteomics, and new imaging techniques have unified the field and pointed out the critical role of cilia as a restricted cell organellar compartment, functionally integrated with other cell organelles including the autophagosome and the nucleus.","18":"Centriole structure and function in the sea urchin zygote parallel those in mammalian somatic cells. Here, I briefly introduce the properties and attributes of the sea urchin system that make it an attractive platform for the study of centrosome and centriole duplication. These attributes apply to all echinoderms readily available from commercial suppliers: sea urchins, sand dollars, and starfish. I list some of the practical aspects of the system that make it a cost- and time-effective system for experimental work and then list properties that are a \"tool kit\" that can be used to conduct studies that would not be practical, or in some cases not possible, with mammalian somatic cells. Since centrioles organize and localize the pericentriolar material that nucleates the astral arrays of microtubules (Bobinnec et al. in J Cell Biol 143(6):1575-1589, 1998), the pattern of aster duplication over several cell cycles can be used as a reliable measure for centriole duplication (Sluder and Rieder in J Cell Biol 100(3):887-896, 1985). Descriptions of the methods my laboratory has used to handle and image echinoderm zygotes are reviewed in Sluder et al. (Methods Cell Biol 61:439-472, 1999). Also included is a bibliography of papers that describe additional methods. ","19":"Nearly all cells have a primary cilia on their surface, which functions as a cellular antennae. Primary cilia assembly begins intracellularly and eventually emerges extracellularly. However, current ciliogenesis assays, which detect cilia length and number, do not monitor ciliary stages. We developed a new assay that detects antibody access to a fluorescently tagged ciliary transmembrane protein, which revealed three ciliary states: classified as 'inside,' 'outside,' or 'partial' cilia. Strikingly, most cilia in RPE cells only partially emerged and many others were long and intracellular, which would be indistinguishable by conventional assays. Importantly, these states switch with starvation-induced ciliogenesis and the cilia can emerge both on the dorsal and ventral surface of the cell. Our assay further allows new molecular and functional studies of the 'ciliary pocket,' a deep plasma membrane invagination whose function is unclear. Molecularly, we show colocalization of EHD1, Septin 9 and glutamylated tubulin with the ciliary pocket. Together, the IN\/OUT assay is not only a new tool for easy and quantifiable visualization of different ciliary stages, but also allows molecular characterization of intermediate ciliary states. ","20":"The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, is one of the most extensively studied organisms in biological research and has centrioles\/basal bodies and cilia that can be modelled to investigate their functions in animals generally. Centrioles are nine-fold symmetrical microtubule-based cylindrical structures required to form centrosomes and also to nucleate the formation of cilia and flagella. When they function to template cilia, centrioles transition into basal bodies. The fruit fly has various types of basal bodies and cilia, which are needed for sensory neuron and sperm function. Genetics, cell biology and behaviour studies in the fruit fly have unveiled new basal body components and revealed different modes of assembly and functions of basal bodies that are conserved in many other organisms, including human, green algae and plasmodium. Here we describe the various basal bodies of Drosophila, what is known about their composition, structure and function. ","21":"Giardia lamblia is an intestinal parasitic protist that causes significant acute and chronic diarrheal disease worldwide. Giardia belongs to the diplomonads, a group of protists in the supergroup Excavata. Diplomonads are characterized by eight motile flagella organized into four bilaterally symmetric pairs. Each of the eight Giardia axonemes has a long cytoplasmic region that extends from the centrally located basal body before exiting the cell body as a membrane-bound flagellum. Each basal body is thus unique in its cytological position and its association with different cytoskeletal features, including the ventral disc, axonemes, and extra-axonemal structures. Inheritance of these unique and complex cytoskeletal elements is maintained through basal body migration, duplication, maturation, and their subsequent association with specific spindle poles during cell division. Due to the complex composition and inheritance of specific basal bodies and their associated structures, Giardia may require novel basal body-associated proteins. Thus, protists such as Giardia may represent an undiscovered source of novel basal body-associated proteins. The development of new tools that make Giardia genetically tractable will enable the composition, structure, and function of the eight basal bodies to be more thoroughly explored. ","22":"Both inherited and sporadic mutations can give rise to a plethora of human diseases. Through myriad diverse cellular processes, sporadic mutations can arise through a failure to accurately replicate the genetic code or by inaccurate separation of duplicated chromosomes into daughter cells. The human genome has therefore evolved to encode a large number of proteins that work together with regulators of the cell cycle to ensure that it remains error-free. This is collectively known as the DNA damage response (DDR), and genome stability mechanisms involve a complex network of signalling and processing factors that ensure redundancy and adaptability of these systems. The importance of genome stability mechanisms is best illustrated by the dramatic increased risk of cancer in individuals with underlying disruption to genome maintenance mechanisms. Cilia are microtubule-based sensory organelles present on most vertebrate cells, where they facilitate transduction of external signals into the cell. When not embedded within the specialised ciliary membrane, components of the primary cilium's basal body help form the microtubule organising centre that controls cellular trafficking and the mitotic segregation of chromosomes. Ciliopathies are a collection of diseases associated with functional disruption to cilia function through a variety of different mechanisms. Ciliopathy phenotypes can vary widely, and although some cellular overgrowth phenotypes are prevalent in a subset of ciliopathies, an increased risk of cancer is not noted as a clinical feature. However, recent studies have identified surprising genetic and functional links between cilia-associated proteins and genome maintenance factors. The purpose of this mini-review is to therefore highlight some of these discoveries and discuss their implications with regards to functional crosstalk between the DDR and ciliogenesis pathways, and how this may impact on the development of human disease. ","23":"The primary cilium is an essential structure for the mediation of numerous signaling pathways involved in the coordination and regulation of cellular processes essential for the development and maintenance of health. Consequently, ciliary dysfunction results in severe human diseases called ciliopathies. Since many of the cilia-mediated signaling pathways are oncogenic pathways, cilia are linked to cancer. Recent studies demonstrate the existence of a cilia-regulated proteasome and that this proteasome is involved in cancer development via the progression of oncogenic, cilia-mediated signaling. This review article investigates the association between primary cilia and cancer with particular emphasis on the role of the cilia-regulated proteasome. ","24":"The unicellular green alga, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, is a biflagellated cell that can swim or glide. C. reinhardtii cells are amenable to genetic, biochemical, proteomic, and microscopic analysis of its basal bodies. The basal bodies contain triplet microtubules and a well-ordered transition zone. Both the mother and daughter basal bodies assemble flagella. Many of the proteins found in other basal body-containing organisms are present in the Chlamydomonas genome, and mutants in these genes affect the assembly of basal bodies. Electron microscopic analysis shows that basal body duplication is site-specific and this may be important for the proper duplication and spatial organization of these organelles. Chlamydomonas is an excellent model for the study of basal bodies as well as the transition zone. ","25":null,"26":"Phylum choanoflagellata is the nearest unicellular neighbor of metazoa at the phylogenetic tree. They are single celled or form the colonies, can be presented by naked cells or live in theca or lorica, but in all cases they have a flagellum surrounded by microvilli of the collar. They have rather uniform and peculiar flagellar apparatus structure with flagellar basal body (FB) producing a flagellum, and non-flagellar basal body (NFB) lying orthogonal to the FB. Long flagellar transition zone contains a unique structure among eukaryotes, the central filament, which connects central microtubules to the transversal plate. Both basal bodies are composed of triplets and interconnected with fibrillar bridge. They also contain the internal arc-shaped connectives between the triplets. The FB has prominent transitional fibers similar to those of chytrid zoospores and choanocytes of sponges, and a radial microtubular root system. The ring-shaped microtubule organizing center (MTOC) produces radial root microtubules, but in some species a MTOC is represented by separate foci. The NFB has a narrow fibrillar root directed towards the Golgi apparatus in association with membrane-bounded sac. Prior to cell division, the basal bodies replicate and migrate to poles of elongated nucleus. The basal bodies serve as MTOCs for the spindle microtubules during nuclear division by semiopen orthomitosis. ","27":"Oral-facial-digital syndromes (OFDS) represent a heterogeneous group of rare developmental disorders affecting the mouth, the face and the digits. Additional signs may involve brain, kidneys and other organs thus better defining the different clinical subtypes. With the exception of OFD types I and VIII, which are X-linked, the majority of OFDS is transmitted as an autosomal recessive syndrome. A number of genes have already found to be mutated in OFDS and most of the encoded proteins are predicted or proven to be involved in primary cilia\/basal body function. Preliminary data indicate a physical interaction among some of those proteins and future studies will clarify whether all OFDS proteins are part of a network functionally connected to cilia. Mutations in some of the genes can also lead to other types of ciliopathies with partially overlapping phenotypes, such as Joubert syndrome (JS) and Meckel syndrome (MKS), supporting the concept that cilia-related diseases might be a continuous spectrum of the same phenotype with different degrees of severity. To date, seven of the described OFDS still await a molecular definition and two unclassified forms need further clinical and molecular validation. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) approaches are expected to shed light on how many OFDS geneticists should consider while evaluating oral-facial-digital cases. Functional studies will establish whether the non-ciliary functions of the transcripts mutated in OFDS might contribute to any of the phenotypic abnormalities observed in OFDS. ","28":null,"29":null,"30":"The amoeboflagellate Naegleria was one of the first organisms in which de novo basal body\/centriole assembly was documented. When in its flagellate form, this single-celled protist has two flagella that are templated by two basal bodies. Each of these basal bodies is structurally well conserved, with triplet microtubules and well-defined proximal cartwheel structures, similar to most other eukaryotic centrioles. The basal bodies are anchored to the nucleus by a single, long striated rootlet. The Naegleria genome encodes many conserved basal body genes whose expression is induced prior to basal body assembly. Because of the rapid and synchronous differentiation from centriole-less amoebae to temporary flagellates with basal bodies, Naegleria offers one of the most promising systems to study de novo basal body assembly, as well as the mechanisms regulating the number of centrioles assembled per cell. ","31":"The freshwater planarian Schmidtea mediterranea has recently emerged as a valuable model system to study basal bodies (BBs) and cilia. Planarians are free-living flatworms that use cilia beating at the surface of their ventral epidermis for gliding along substrates. The ventral epidermis is composed of multiciliated cells (MCCs) that are similar to the MCCs in the respiratory airways, the brain ventricles, and the oviducts in vertebrates. In the planarian epidermis, each cell assembles approximately eighty cilia that beat in a coordinate fashion across the tissue. The BBs that nucleate these cilia all assemble de novo during terminal differentiation of MCCs. The genome of the planarian S. mediterranea has been sequenced and efficient methods for targeting gene expression by RNA interference are available. Defects induced by perturbing the expression of BB proteins can be detected simply by analyzing the locomotion of planarians. BBs are present in large numbers and in predictable orientation, which greatly facilitates analyses by immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. The great ease in targeting gene expression and analyzing associated defects allowed to identify a set of proteins required for BB assembly and function in planarian MCCs. Future technological developments, including methods for transgenic expression in planarians and in related species, will achieve turning free-living flatworms into powerful model systems to study MCCs and the associated human pathologies. ","32":"In human cells, the basal body (BB) core comprises a ninefold microtubule-triplet cylindrical structure. Distal and subdistal appendages are located at the distal end of BB, where they play indispensable roles in cilium formation and function. Most cells that arrest in the G0 stage of the cell cycle initiate BB docking at the plasma membrane followed by BB-mediated growth of a solitary primary cilium, a structure required for sensing the extracellular environment and cell signaling. In addition to the primary cilium, motile cilia are present in specialized cells, such as sperm and airway epithelium. Mutations that affect BB function result in cilia dysfunction. This can generate syndromic disorders, collectively called ciliopathies, for which there are no effective treatments. In this review, we focus on the features and functions of BBs and centrosomes in Homo sapiens. ","33":null,"34":null,"35":"Paramecium is a free-living unicellular organism, easy to cultivate, featuring ca. 4000 motile cilia emanating from longitudinal rows of basal bodies anchored in the plasma membrane. The basal body circumferential polarity is marked by the asymmetrical organization of its associated appendages. The complex basal body plus its associated rootlets forms the kinetid. Kinetids are precisely oriented within a row in correlation with the cell polarity. Basal bodies also display a proximo-distal polarity with microtubule triplets at their proximal ends, surrounding a permanent cartwheel, and microtubule doublets at the transition zone located between the basal body and the cilium. Basal bodies remain anchored at the cell surface during the whole cell cycle. On the opposite to metazoan, there is no centriolar stage and new basal bodies develop anteriorly and at right angle from the base of the docked ones. Ciliogenesis follows a specific temporal pattern during the cell cycle and both unciliated and ciliated docked basal bodies can be observed in the same cell. The transition zone is particularly well organized with three distinct plates and a maturation of its structure is observed during the growth of the cilium. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses have been performed in different organisms including Paramecium to understand the ciliogenesis process. The data have incremented a multi-organism database, dedicated to proteins involved in the biogenesis, composition and function of centrosomes, basal bodies or cilia. Thanks to its thousands of basal bodies and the well-known choreography of their duplication during the cell cycle, Paramecium has allowed pioneer studies focusing on the structural and functional processes underlying basal body duplication. Proteins involved in basal body anchoring are sequentially recruited to assemble the transition zone thus indicating that the anchoring process parallels the structural differentiation of the transition zone. This feature offers an opportunity to dissect spatio-temporally the mechanisms involved in the basal body anchoring process and transition zone formation. ","36":"Basal bodies are microtubule-based organelles that assemble cilia and flagella, which are critical for motility and sensory functions in all major eukaryotic lineages. The core structure of the basal body is highly conserved, but there is variability in biogenesis and additional functions that are organism and cell type specific. Work carried out in the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei has arguably produced one of the most detailed dissections of basal body structure and biogenesis within the context of the flagellar pocket and associated organelles. In this review, we provide a detailed overview of the basic basal body structure in T. brucei along with the accessory structures and show how basal body movements during the basal body duplication cycle orchestrate cell and organelle morphogenesis. With this in-depth three-dimensional knowledge, identification of many basal body genes coupled with excellent genetic tools makes it an attractive model organism to study basal body biogenesis and maintenance. ","37":null,"38":"Cancer cells are distinguished from normal cells by increased proliferation and metabolism, loss of polarity control, and the potential to invade other tissues of the body. As hubs of signaling transduction, primary cilia have been linked to diverse developmental and degenerative disorders. Interestingly, loss of cilia has been observed in multiple malignant tumors, suggesting a potential suppressive role of cilia in cancer development. More recently, emerging studies began to unveil the bidirectional interaction of cilia and autophagy, a basic cellular clearance and recycling mechanism to regulate cell homeostasis. Here, we summarize the interplay between cilia and autophagy and discuss the roles of cilia in both autophagy and cancer. ","39":"Xenopus has been one of the earliest and most important vertebrate model organisms for investigating the role and structure of basal bodies. Early transmission electron microscopy studies in Xenopus revealed the fine structures of Xenopus basal bodies and their accessory structures. Subsequent investigations using multiciliated cells in the Xenopus epidermis have further revealed many important features regarding the transcriptional regulation of basal body amplification as well as the regulation of basal body\/cilia polarity. Future basal body research using Xenopus is expected to focus on the application of modern genome editing techniques (CRISPR\/TALEN) to characterize the components of basal body proteins and their molecular functions. ","40":"Tetrahymena thermophila is a ciliate with hundreds of cilia primarily used for cellular motility. These cells propel themselves by generating hydrodynamic forces through coordinated ciliary beating. The coordination of cilia is ensured by the polarized organization of basal bodies (BBs), which exhibit remarkable structural and molecular conservation with BBs in other eukaryotes. During each cell cycle, massive BB assembly occurs and guarantees that future Tetrahymena cells gain a full complement of BBs and their associated cilia. BB duplication occurs next to existing BBs, and the predictable patterning of new BBs is facilitated by asymmetric BB accessory structures that are integrated with a membrane-associated cytoskeletal network. The large number of BBs combined with robust molecular genetics merits Tetrahymena as a unique model system to elucidate the fundamental events of BB assembly and organization. ","41":"Primary cilia, microtubule-based sensory structures, orchestrate various critical signals during development and tissue homeostasis. In view of the rising interest into the reciprocal link between ciliogenesis and cell cycle, we discuss here several recent advances to understand the molecular link between the individual step of ciliogenesis and cell cycle control. At the onset of ciliogenesis (the transition from centrosome to basal body), distal appendage proteins have been established as components indispensable for the docking of vesicles at the mother centriole. In the initial step of axonemal extension, CP110, Ofd1, and trichoplein, key negative regulators of ciliogenesis, are found to be removed by a kinase-dependent mechanism, autophagy, and ubiquitin-proteasome system, respectively. Of note, their disposal functions as a restriction point to decide that the axonemal nucleation and extension begin. In the elongation step, Nde1, a negative regulator of ciliary length, is revealed to be ubiquitylated and degraded by CDK5-SCF(Fbw7) in a cell cycle-dependent manner. With regard to ciliary length control, it has been uncovered in flagellar shortening of Chlamydomonas that cilia itself transmit a ciliary length signal to cytoplasm. At the ciliary resorption step upon cell cycle re-entry, cilia are found to be disassembled not only by Aurora A-HDAC6 pathway but also by Nek2-Kif24 and Plk1-Kif2A pathways through their microtubule-depolymerizing activity. On the other hand, it is becoming evident that the presence of primary cilia itself functions as a structural checkpoint for cell cycle re-entry. These data suggest that ciliogenesis and cell cycle intimately link each other, and further elucidation of these mechanisms will contribute to understanding the pathology of cilia-related disease including cancer and discovering targets of therapeutic interventions. ","42":null,"43":null,"44":"In vertebrates, rootletin is the major structural component of the ciliary rootlet and is also part of the tether linking the centrioles of the centrosome. Various functions have been ascribed to the rootlet, including maintenance of ciliary integrity through anchoring and facilitation of transport to the cilium or at the base of the cilium. In Drosophila, Rootletin function has not been explored. In the Drosophila embryo, Rootletin is expressed exclusively in cell lineages of type I sensory neurons, the only somatic cells bearing a cilium. Expression is strongest in mechanosensory chordotonal neurons. Knock-down of Rootletin results in loss of ciliary rootlet in these neurons and severe disruption of their sensory function. However, the sensory cilium appears largely normal in structure and in localisation of proteins suggesting no strong defect in ciliogenesis. No evidence was found for a defect in cell division. The role of Rootletin as a component of the ciliary rootlet is conserved in Drosophila. In contrast, lack of a general role in cell division is consistent with lack of centriole tethering during the centrosome cycle in Drosophila. Although our evidence is consistent with an anchoring role for the rootlet, severe loss of mechanosensory function of chordotonal (Ch) neurons upon Rootletin knock-down may suggest a direct role for the rootlet in the mechanotransduction mechanism itself. ","45":"Ciliopathies give rise to a multitude of organ-specific pathologies; obtaining relevant primary patient material is useful for both diagnostics and research. However, acquisition of primary ciliated cells from patients, particularly pediatric patients, presents multiple difficulties. Biopsies and blood samples are invasive, and patients (and their parents) may be reluctant to travel to medical centers, especially for research purposes. We sought to develop non-invasive methods of obtaining viable and ciliated primary cells from ciliopathy patients which could be obtained in the home environment. We introduce two methods for the non-invasive acquisition of primary ciliated cells. In one approach, we collected spontaneously shed deciduous (milk) teeth from children. Fibroblast-like cells were observed after approximately 2 weeks of culture of fragmented teeth. Secondly, urine samples were collected from children or adults. Cellular content was isolated and after approximately 1 week, renal epithelial cells were observed. Both urine and tooth-derived cells ciliate and express ciliary proteins visible with immunofluorescence. Urine-derived renal epithelial cells (URECs) are amenable to 3D culturing, siRNA knockdown, and ex vivo drug testing. As evidence continues to accumulate showing that the primary cilium has a central role in development and disease, the need for readily available and ciliated patient cells will increase. Here, we introduce two methods for the non-invasive acquisition of cells with primary cilia. We believe that these cells can be used for further ex vivo study of ciliopathies and in the future, for personalized medicine. ","46":"The primary cilium is an antenna-like, nonmotile structure that extends from the surface of most mammalian cell types and is critical for chemosensing and mechanosensing in a variety of tissues including cartilage, bone, and kidney. Flow-induced intracellular calcium ion (Ca(2+)) increases in kidney epithelia depend on primary cilia and primary cilium-localized Ca(2+)-permeable channels polycystin-2 (PC2) and transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4). While primary cilia have been implicated in osteocyte mechanotransduction, the molecular mechanism that mediates this process is not fully understood. We directed a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based Ca(2+) biosensor to the cilium by fusing the biosensor sequence to the sequence of the primary cilium-specific protein Arl13b. Using this tool, we investigated the role of several Ca(2+)-permeable channels that may mediate flow-induced Ca(2+) entry: PC2, TRPV4, and PIEZO1. Here, we report the first measurements of Ca(2+) signaling within osteocyte primary cilia using a FRET-based biosensor fused to ARL13B. We show that fluid flow induces Ca(2+) increases in osteocyte primary cilia which depend on both intracellular Ca(2+) release and extracellular Ca(2+) entry. Using siRNA-mediated knockdowns, we demonstrate that TRPV4, but not PC2 or PIEZO1, mediates flow-induced ciliary Ca(2+) increases and loading-induced Cox-2 mRNA increases, an osteogenic response. In this study, we show that the primary cilium forms a Ca(2+) microdomain dependent on Ca(2+) entry through TRPV4. These results demonstrate that the mechanism of mechanotransduction mediated by primary cilia varies in different tissue contexts. Additionally, we anticipate that this work is a starting point for more studies investigating the role of TRPV4 in mechanotransduction. ","47":"The Cilia 2014 conference was organised by four European networks: the Ciliopathy Alliance, the Groupement de Recherche CIL, the Nordic Cilia and Centrosome Network and the EU FP7 programme SYSCILIA. More than 400 delegates from 27 countries gathered at the Institut Pasteur conference centre in Paris, including 30 patients and patient representatives. The meeting offered a unique opportunity for exchange between different scientific and medical communities. Major highlights included new discoveries about the roles of motile and immotile cilia during development and homeostasis, the mechanism of cilium construction, as well as progress in diagnosis and possible treatment of ciliopathies. The contributions to the cilia field of flagellated infectious eukaryotes and of systems biology were also presented. ","48":"The motility of eukaryotic cilia and flagella is modulated in response to several extracellular stimuli. Ca(2+) is the most critical intracellular factor for these changes in motility, directly acting on the axonemes and altering flagellar asymmetry. Calaxin is an opisthokont-specific neuronal calcium sensor protein first described in the sperm of the ascidian Ciona intestinalis. It binds to a heavy chain of two-headed outer arm dynein in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner and regulates 'asymmetric' wave propagation at high concentrations of Ca(2+). A Ca(2+)-binding subunit of outer arm dynein in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the light chain 4 (LC4), which is a Ca(2+)-sensor phylogenetically different from calaxin, shows Ca(2+)-dependent binding to a heavy chain of three-headed outer arm dynein. However, LC4 appears to participate in 'symmetric' wave propagation at high concentrations of Ca(2+). LC4-type dynein light chain is present in bikonts, except for some subclasses of the Excavata. Thus, flagellar asymmetry-symmetry conversion in response to Ca(2+) concentration represents a 'mirror image' relationship between Ciona and Chlamydomonas. Phylogenetic analyses indicate the duplication, divergence, and loss of heavy chain and Ca(2+)-sensors of outer arm dynein among excavate species. These features imply a divergence point with respect to Ca(2+)-dependent regulation of outer arm dynein in cilia and flagella during the evolution of eukaryotic supergroups. ","49":"Cilia are vital to various cellular and sensory functions. The pathway by which ciliary membrane proteins translocate through the transition zone is not well understood. Direct morphological characterization of ciliary cargoes in transit remains lacking. In the vertebrate photoreceptor, rhodopsin is synthesized and transported from the inner segment to the disc membranes of the outer segment (OS), which is a modified cilium. To date, the membrane topology of the basal OS and the mechanisms by which rhodopsin is transported through the transition zone (i.e., connecting cilium) and by which nascent disc membranes are formed remain controversial. Using an antibody recognizing its cytoplasmic C-terminus, we localize rhodopsin on both the plasma membrane and lumen of the connecting cilium by immuno-electron microscopy (EM). We also use transmission EM to visualize the electron-dense enzymatic products derived from the rhodopsin-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) fusion in transfected rodent rods. In the connecting cilium, rhodopsin is not only expressed in the plasma membrane but also in the lumen on two types of membranous carriers, long smooth tubules and small, coated, filament-bound vesicles. Additionally, membrane-bound rhodopsin carriers are also found in close proximity to the nascent discs at the basal OS axoneme and in the distal inner segment. This topology-indicative HRP-rhodopsin reporter shows that the nascent basalmost discs and the mature discs have the same membrane topology, with no indication of evagination or invagination from the basal OS plasma membranes. Serial block face and focus ion beam scanning EM analyses both indicate that the transport carriers enter the connecting cilium lumen from either the basal body lumen or cytoplasmic space between the axonemal microtubules and the ciliary plasma membrane. Our results suggest the existence of multiple ciliary gate entry pathways in rod photoreceptors. Rhodopsin is likely transported across the connecting cilium on the plasma membrane and through the lumens on two types of tubulovesicular carriers produced in the inner segment. Our findings agree with a previous model that rhodopsin carriers derived from the cell body may fuse directly onto nascent discs as they grow and mature. ","50":"Cryo-electron tomography has been a valuable tool in the analysis of 3D structures of cilia at molecular and cellular levels. It opened a way to reconstruct 3D conformations of proteins in cilia at 3-nm resolution, revealed networks of a number of component proteins in cilia, and has even allowed the study of component dynamics. In particular, we have identified the locations and conformations of all the regular inner and outer dyneins, as well as various regulators such as radial spokes. Since the mid 2000s, cryo-electron tomography has provided us with new knowledge, concepts, and questions in the area of cilia research. Now, after nearly 10 years of application of this technique, we are turning a corner and are at the stage to discuss the next steps. We expect further development of this technique for specimen preparation, data acquisition, and analysis. While combining this tool with other methodologies has already made cryo-electron tomography more biologically significant, we need to continue this cooperation using recently developed biotechnology and cell biology approaches. In this review, we will provide an up-to-date overview of the biological insights obtained by cryo-electron tomography and will discuss future possibilities of this technique in the context of cilia research. ","51":null,"52":null,"53":"New generation technologies in cell and molecular biology generate large amounts of data hard to exploit for individual proteins. This is particularly true for ciliary and centrosomal research. Cildb is a multi-species knowledgebase gathering high throughput studies, which allows advanced searches to identify proteins involved in centrosome, basal body or cilia biogenesis, composition and function. Combined to localization of genetic diseases on human chromosomes given by OMIM links, candidate ciliopathy proteins can be compiled through Cildb searches. Othology between recent versions of the whole proteomes was computed using Inparanoid and ciliary high throughput studies were remapped on these recent versions. Due to constant evolution of the ciliary and centrosomal field, Cildb has been recently upgraded twice, with new species whole proteomes and new ciliary studies, and the latter version displays a novel BioMart interface, much more intuitive than the previous ones. This already popular database is designed now for easier use and is up to date in regard to high throughput ciliary studies. ","54":"","55":null,"56":"Primary cilia are microtubule-based organelles that protrude from the cell surface. Primary cilia play a critical role in development and disease through regulation of signaling pathways including the Hedgehog pathway. Recent mouse models have also linked ciliary dysfunction to cancer. However, little is known about the role of primary cilia in breast cancer development. Primary cilia expression was characterized in cancer cells as well as their surrounding stromal cells from 86 breast cancer patients by counting cilia and measuring cilia length. In addition, we examined cilia expression in normal epithelial and stromal cells from reduction mammoplasties as well as histologically normal adjacent tissue for comparison. We observed a statistically significant decrease in the percentage of ciliated cells on both premalignant lesions as well as in invasive cancers. This loss of cilia does not correlate with increased proliferative index (Ki67-positive cells). However, we did detect rare ciliated cancer cells present in patients with invasive breast cancer and found that these express a marker of basaloid cancers that is associated with poor prognosis (Cytokeratin 5). Interestingly, the percentage of ciliated stromal cells associated with both premalignant and invasive cancers decreased when compared to stromal cells associated with normal tissue. To understand how cilia may be lost during cancer development we analyzed the expression of genes required for ciliogenesis and\/or ciliary function and compared their expression in normal versus breast cancer samples. We found that expression of ciliary genes were frequently downregulated in human breast cancers. These data suggest that primary cilia are lost early in breast cancer development on both the cancer cells and their surrounding stromal cells. ","57":"Cilia and the sperm flagellum share many structural properties. Meiosis-specific nuclear structural 1 (MNS1) is a recently characterized protein that is abundantly expressed in post-meiotic spermatids and is required for proper flagellar and motile cilia formation. To explore the possible functions of MNS1, we performed a BLAST search and determined it is homologous to the conserved domain pfam13868, exemplified by mitostatin. This protein interacts with mitofusin 2 (MFN2), a protein that participates in regulating mitochondrial associations to subcellular organelles. We hypothesized that an association between MFN2 and MNS1 in the sperm is involved in flagellar biogenesis and function. In the studies reported here, MFN2 was found in murine reproductive and somatic tissues high in ciliary content while MNS1 was present as two closely migrating bands in reproductive tissues. Interestingly, mitostatin was also present in reproductive tissues. Similar to Mns1 and mitostatin, Mfn2 was expressed in the testis as detected by RT-PCR. In addition, Mfn2 and Mns1 decreased in expression from pachytene spermatocytes to condensing spermatids as assessed by quantitative RT-PCR. Co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated an association between MFN2 and MNS1 in spermatogenic cells. Indirect immunofluorescence indicated that MFN2 and MNS1 co-localized to the sperm flagellum in freshly collected cauda epididymal sperm. MFN2 associated with the midpiece while MNS1 was present throughout the sperm tail in caput and cauda epididymal sperm. In spermatogenic cells, MFN2 was seen in the mitochondria, and MNS1 was present throughout the cell cytoplasm. MFN2 and MNS1 were present in detergent-resistant flagellar structures of the sperm. These results demonstrate that MFN2 and MNS1 are present in spermatogenic cells and are an integral part of the sperm flagellum, indicating they play a role in flagellar biogenesis and\/or function. ","58":"Primary cilia (PC) are non-motile microtubule based organelles present on almost every cell type and are known to serve as critical organizing centers for several signaling pathways crucial to embryonic and postnatal development. Alterations in the Hh pathway, the most studied signaling pathway regulated by PC, affect mammary gland development as well as maintenance of the stem and progenitor cell populations. We developed mouse models with deletion of PC in mammary luminal epithelial, basal epithelial, and stromal cells for evaluation of the function of PC in mammary development via MMTV-Cre, K14-Cre, and Prx1-Cre mediated deletion, respectively. The activity of Cre was confirmed using ROSA26 reporters. Mammary stem and progenitor cells were enriched through growth as mammospheres. Adenovirus-Cre mediated deletion of Ift88 was used to determine a role for PC in this population of cells. Disruption of Ift88 and PC were confirmed in using PCR and immunofluorescent methods. Prx1-Cre; Ift88Del mice demonstrated defects in terminal end buds during puberty. However, these Ift88Del glands exhibited typical terminal end bud formation as well as normal ductal histology when transplanted into wild type hosts, indicating that the phenotype observed was not intrinsic to the mammary gland. Furthermore, no discernable alterations to mammary development were observed in MMTV-Cre- or K14-Cre; Ift88Del lines. These mice were able to feed and support several litters of pups even though wide spread depletion of PC was confirmed. Cells grown in mammosphere culture were enriched for PC containing cells suggesting PC are preferentially expressed on mammary stem and progenitor cells. Deletion of Ift88 in mammary epithelial cells resulted in a significant reduction in the number of primary mammospheres established; however, there was no effect on outgrowth of secondary mammospheres in PC-depleted cells. PC regulate systemic factors that can affect mammary development in early puberty. PC on MMTV- or K14-expressing epithelial cells are not required for normal mammary development or function. PC are expressed at high levels on cells in mammosphere cultures. PC may be required for cells to establish mammospheres in culture; however, PC are not required for renewal of the cultures. ","59":"Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is an autosomal recessive ciliopathy disorder with 18 known causative genes (BBS1-18). The primary clinical features are renal abnormalities, rod-cone dystrophy, post-axial polydactyly, learning difficulties, obesity and male hypogonadism. We describe the clinical phenotype in three Saudi siblings in whom we have identified a novel mutation in exon 12 of BBS5 (c.966dupT; p.Ala323CysfsX57). This single nucleotide duplication creates a frame shift results in a predicted elongated peptide. Translation blocking Morpholino oligonucleotides were used to create zebrafish bbs5 morphants. Morphants displayed retinal layering defects, abnormal cardiac looping and dilated, cystic pronephric ducts with reduced cilia expression. Morphants also displayed significantly reduced dextran clearance via the pronephros compared to wildtype embryos, suggesting reduced renal function in morphants. The eye, kidney and heart defects reported in morphant zebrafish resemble the human phenotype of BBS5 mutations. The pathogenicity of the novel BBS5 mutation was determined. Mutant mRNA was unable to rescue pleiotropic phenotypes of bbs5 morphant zebrafish and in cell culture we demonstrate a mislocalisation of mutant BBS5 protein which fails to localise discretely with the basal body. We conclude that this novel BBS5 mutation has a deleterious function that accounts for the multisystem ciliopathy phenotype seen in affected human patients. ","60":"Meckelin (MKS3), a conserved protein linked to Meckel Syndrome, assists in the migration of centrioles to the cell surface for ciliogenesis. We explored for additional functions of MKS3p using RNA interference (RNAi) and expression of FLAG epitope tagged protein in the ciliated protozoan Paramecium tetraurelia. This cell has a highly organized cell surface with thousands of cilia and basal bodies that are grouped into one or two basal body units delineated by ridges. The highly systematized nature of the P. tetraurelia cell surface provides a research model of MKS and other ciliopathies where changes in ciliary structure, subcellular organization and overall arrangement of the cell surface can be easily observed. We used cells reduced in IFT88 for comparison, as the involvement of this gene's product with cilia maintenance and growth is well understood. FLAG-MKS3p was found above the plane of the distal basal body in the transition zone. Approximately 95% of those basal bodies observed had staining for FLAG-MKS3. The RNAi phenotype for MKS3 depleted cells included global shortening and loss of cilia. Basal body structure appeared unaffected. On the dorsal surface, the basal bodies and their associated rootlets appeared rotated out of alignment from the normal anterior-posterior rows. Likewise, cortical units were abnormal in shape and out of alignment from normal rows. A GST pull down using the MKS3 coiled-coil domain suggests previously unidentified interacting partners. Reduction of MKS3p shows that this protein affects development and maintenance of cilia over the entire cell surface. Reduction of MKS3p is most visible on the dorsal surface. The anterior basal body is attached to and moves along the striated rootlet of the posterior basal body in preparation for duplication. We propose that with reduced MKS3p, this attachment and guidance of the basal body is lost. The basal body veers off course, causing basal body rows to be misaligned and units to be misshapen. Rootlets form normally on these misaligned basal bodies but are rotated out of their correct orientation. Our hypothesis is further supported by the identification of novel interacting partners of MKS3p including a kinetodesmal fiber protein, KdB2. ","61":null,"62":null,"63":"Cilia and flagella perform diverse roles in motility and sensory perception, and defects in their construction or their function are responsible for human genetic diseases termed ciliopathies. Cilia and flagella construction relies on intraflagellar transport (IFT), the bi-directional movement of 'trains' composed of protein complexes found between axoneme microtubules and the flagellum membrane. Although extensive information about IFT components and their mode of action were discovered in the green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, other model organisms have revealed further insights about IFT. This is the case of Trypanosoma brucei, a flagellated protist responsible for sleeping sickness that is turning out to be an emerging model for studying IFT. In this article, we review different aspects of IFT, based on studies of Chlamydomonas and Trypanosoma. Data available from both models are examined to ask challenging questions about IFT such as the initiation of flagellum construction, the setting-up of IFT and the mode of formation of IFT trains, and their remodeling at the tip as well as their recycling at the base. Another outstanding question is the individual role played by the multiple IFT proteins. The use of different models, bringing their specific biological and experimental advantages, will be invaluable in order to obtain a global understanding of IFT. ","64":"Most motile cilia and flagella have nine outer doublet and two central pair (CP) microtubules. Outer doublet microtubules are continuous with the triplet microtubules of the basal body, are templated by the basal body microtubules, and grow by addition of new subunits to their distal (\"plus\") ends. In contrast, CP microtubules are not continuous with basal body microtubules, raising the question of how these microtubules are assembled and how their polarity is established. CP assembly in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii was analyzed by electron microscopy and wide-field and super-resolution immunofluorescence microscopy. To analyze CP assembly independently from flagellar assembly, the CP-deficient katanin mutants pf15 or pf19 were mated to wild-type cells. HA-tagged tubulin and the CP-specific protein hydin were used as markers to analyze de novo CP assembly inside the formerly mutant flagella. In regenerating flagella, the CP and its projections assemble near the transition zone soon after the onset of outer doublet elongation. During de novo CP assembly in full-length flagella, the nascent CP was first apparent in a subdistal region of the flagellum. The developing CP replaces a fibrous core that fills the axonemal lumen of CP-deficient flagella. The fibrous core contains proteins normally associated with the C1 CP microtubule and proteins involved in intraflagellar transport (IFT). In flagella of the radial spoke-deficient mutant pf14, two pairs of CPs are frequently present with identical correct polarities. The temporal separation of flagellar and CP assembly in dikaryons formed by mating CP-deficient gametes to wild-type gametes revealed that the formation of the CP does not require proximity to the basal body or transition zone, or to the flagellar tip. The observations on pf14 provide further support that the CP self-assembles without a template and eliminate the possibility that CP polarity is established by interaction with axonemal radial spokes. Polarity of the developing CP may be determined by the proximal-to-distal gradient of precursor molecules. IFT proteins accumulate in flagella of CP mutants; the abnormal distribution of IFT proteins may explain why these flagella are often shorter than normal. ","65":"The building of a cilium or flagellum requires molecular motors and associated proteins that allow the relocation of proteins from the cell body to the distal end and the return of proteins to the cell body in a process termed intraflagellar transport (IFT). IFT trains are carried out by kinesin and back to the cell body by dynein. We used whole genome sequencing to identify the causative mutations for two temperature-sensitive flagellar assembly mutants in Chlamydomonas and validated the changes using reversion analysis. We examined the effect of these mutations on the localization of IFT81, an IFT complex B protein, the cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain (DHC1b), and the dynein light intermediate chain (D1bLIC). The strains, fla18 and fla24, have mutations in kinesin-2 and cytoplasmic dynein, respectively. The fla18 mutation alters the same glutamic acid (E24G) mutated in the fla10-14 allele (E24K). The fla18 strain loses flagella at 32?C more rapidly than the E24K allele but less rapidly than the fla10-1 allele. The fla18 mutant loses its flagella by detachment rather than by shortening. The fla24 mutation falls in cytoplasmic dynein and changes a completely conserved amino acid (L3243P) in an alpha helix in the AAA5 domain. The fla24 mutant loses its flagella by shortening within 6 hours at 32?C. DHC1b protein is reduced by 18-fold and D1bLIC is reduced by 16-fold at 21?C compared to wild-type cells. We identified two pseudorevertants (L3243S and L3243R), which remain flagellated at 32?C. Although fla24 cells assemble full-length flagella at 21?C, IFT81 protein localization is dramatically altered. Instead of localizing at the basal body and along the flagella, IFT81 is concentrated at the proximal end of the flagella. The pseudorevertants show wild-type IFT81 localization at 21?C, but proximal end localization of IFT81 at 32?C. The change in the AAA5 domain of the cytoplasmic dynein in fla24 may block the recycling of IFT trains after retrograde transport. It is clear that different alleles in the flagellar motors reveal different functions and roles. Multiple alleles will be important for understanding structure-function relationships. ","66":"Circulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) through the ventricular system is driven by motile cilia on ependymal cells of the brain. Disturbed ciliary motility induces the formation of hydrocephalus, a pathological accumulation of CSF resulting in ventricle dilatation and increased intracranial pressure. The mechanism by which loss of motile cilia causes hydrocephalus has not been elucidated. The aim of this study was: (1) to provide a detailed account of the development of ciliation in the brain of the African clawed frog Xenopus laevis; and (2) to analyze the relevance of ependymal cilia motility for CSF circulation and brain ventricle morphogenesis in Xenopus. Gene expression analysis of foxj1, the bona fide marker for motile cilia, was used to identify potentially ciliated regions in the developing central nervous system (CNS) of the tadpole. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to reveal the distribution of mono- and multiciliated cells during successive stages of brain morphogenesis, which was functionally assessed by bead injection and video microscopy of ventricular CSF flow. An antisense morpholino oligonucleotide (MO)-mediated gene knock-down that targeted foxj1 in the CNS was applied to assess the role of motile cilia in the ventricles. RNA transcripts of foxj1 in the CNS were found from neurula stages onwards. Following neural tube closure, foxj1 expression was seen in distinct ventricular regions such as the zona limitans intrathalamica (ZLI), subcommissural organ (SCO), floor plate, choroid plexus (CP), and rhombomere boundaries. In all areas, expression of foxj1 preceded the outgrowth of monocilia and the subsequent switch to multiciliated ependymal cells. Cilia were absent in foxj1 morphants, causing impaired CSF flow and fourth ventricle hydrocephalus in tadpole-stage embryos. Motile ependymal cilia are important organelles in the Xenopus CNS, as they are essential for the circulation of CSF and maintenance of homeostatic fluid pressure. The Xenopus CNS ventricles might serve as a novel model system for the analysis of human ciliary genes whose deficiency cause hydrocephalus. ","67":"Cilia are small, microtubule-based protrusions important for development and homeostasis. We recently demonstrated that the planar cell polarity effector protein Fuz is a critical regulator of axonemal intraflagellar transport dynamics and localization. Here, we report our findings on the role of the small GTPase Rsg1, a known binding partner of Fuz, and its role in the dynamics and cytoplasmic localization of intraflagellar transport proteins. We find that Rsg1 loss of function leads to impaired axonemal IFT dynamics in multiciliated cells. We further show that Rsg1 is required for appropriate cytoplasmic localization of the retrograde IFT-A protein IFT43. Finally, we show that Rsg1 governs the apical localization of basal bodies, the anchoring structures of cilia. Our data suggest that Rsg1 is a regulator of multiple aspects of ciliogenesis, including apical trafficking of basal bodies and the localization and dynamics intraflagellar transport proteins. ","68":"Cilia are hair-like protrusions found at the surface of most eukaryotic cells. They can be divided into two types, motile and non-motile. Motile cilia are found in a restricted number of cell types, are generally present in large numbers, and beat in a coordinated fashion to generate fluid flow or locomotion. Non-motile or primary cilia, on the other hand, are detected in many different cell types, appear once per cell, and primarily function to transmit signals from the extracellular milieu to the cell nucleus. Defects in cilia formation, function, or maintenance are known to cause a bewildering set of human diseases, or ciliopathies, typified by retinal degeneration, renal failure and cystic kidneys, obesity, liver dysfunction, and neurological disorders. A common denominator between motile and primary cilia is their structural similarity, as both types of cilia are composed of an axoneme, the ciliary backbone that is made up of microtubules emanating from a mother centriole\/basal body anchored to the cell membrane, surrounded by a ciliary membrane continuous with the plasma membrane. This structural similarity is indicative of a universal mechanism of cilia assembly involving a common set of molecular players and a sophisticated, highly regulated series of molecular events. In this review, we will mainly focus on recent advances in our understanding of the regulatory mechanisms underlying cilia assembly, with special attention paid to the centriolar protein, CP110, its interacting partner Cep290, and the various downstream molecular players and events leading to intraflagellar transport (IFT), a process that mediates the bidirectional movement of protein cargos along the axoneme and that is essential for cilia formation and maintenance. ","69":"As an organelle, the cilium contains a unique complement of protein and lipid. Recent work has begun to shed light on the mechanisms that regulate entry of ciliary proteins into the compartment. Here, we focus on the mechanisms that regulate ciliary entry of cytosolic molecules. Studies have revealed a size exclusion mechanism for ciliary entry that is similar to the barrier to nuclear entry. Active import into the ciliary compartment involves nuclear trafficking components including importins, a Ran-guanosine triphosphate gradient, and nucleoporins. Together, this work indicates that nuclei and cilia share molecular, structural and mechanistic components that regulate import into the compartments. ","70":"Intraflagellar transport (IFT) is required for the assembly and maintenance of cilia, as well as the proper function of ciliary motility and signaling. IFT is powered by molecular motors that move along the axonemal microtubules, carrying large complexes of IFT proteins that travel together as so-called trains. IFT complexes likely function as adaptors that mediate interactions between anterograde\/retrograde motors and ciliary cargoes, facilitating cargo transport between the base and tip of the cilium. Here, we provide an up-to-date review of IFT complex structure and architecture, and discuss how interactions with cargoes and motors may be achieved. ","71":"Cilia are found on nearly every cell type in the mammalian body, and have been historically classified as either motile or immotile. Motile cilia are important for fluid and cellular movement; however, the roles of non-motile or primary cilia in most tissues remain unknown. Several genetic syndromes, called the ciliopathies, are associated with defects in cilia structure or function and have a wide range of clinical presentations. Much of what we know about the formation and maintenance of cilia comes from model systems like C. elegans and Chalmydomonas. Studies of mammalian cilia in live tissues have been hampered by difficulty visualizing them. To facilitate analyses of mammalian cilia function we generated an inducible CiliaGFP mouse by targeting mouse cDNA encoding a cilia-localized protein somatostatin receptor 3 fused to GFP (Sstr3::GFP) into the ROSA26 locus. In this system, Sstr3::GFP is expressed from the ubiquitous ROSA26 promoter after Cre mediated deletion of an upstream Neo cassette flanked by lox P sites. Fluorescent cilia labeling was observed in a variety of live tissues and after fixation. Both cell-type specific and temporally regulated cilia labeling were obtained using multiple Cre lines. The analysis of renal cilia in anesthetized live mice demonstrates that cilia commonly lay nearly parallel to the apical surface of the tubule. In contrast, in more deeply anesthetized mice the cilia display a synchronized, repetitive oscillation that ceases upon death, suggesting a relationship to heart beat, blood pressure or glomerular filtration. The ability to visualize cilia in live samples within the CiliaGFP mouse will greatly aid studies of ciliary function. This mouse will be useful for in vivo genetic and pharmacological screens to assess pathways regulating cilia motility, signaling, assembly, trafficking, resorption and length control and to study cilia regulated physiology in relation to ciliopathy phenotypes. ","72":"The multinational SYSCILIA consortium aims to gain a mechanistic understanding of the cilium. We utilize multiple parallel high-throughput (HTP) initiatives to develop predictive models of relationships between complex genotypes and variable phenotypes of ciliopathies. The models generated are only as good as the wet laboratory data fed into them. It is therefore essential to orchestrate a well-annotated and high-confidence dataset to be able to assess the quality of any HTP dataset. Here, we present the inaugural SYSCILIA gold standard of known ciliary components as a public resource.","73":"Dysfunctional cilia underlie a broad range of cellular and tissue phenotypes and can eventually result in the development of ciliopathies: pathologically diverse diseases that range from clinically mild to highly complex and severe multi-organ failure syndromes incompatible with neonatal life. Given that virtually all cells of the human body have the capacity to generate cilia, it is likely that clinical manifestations attributed to ciliary dysfunction will increase in the years to come. Disputed but nevertheless enigmatic is the notion that at least a subset of tumor phenotypes fit within the ciliopathy disease spectrum and that cilia loss may be required for tumor progression. Contending for the centrosome renders ciliation and cell division mutually exclusive; a regulated tipping of balance promotes either process. The mechanisms involved, however, are complex. If the hypothesis that tumorigenesis results from dysfunctional cilia is true, then why do the classic ciliopathies only show limited hyperplasia at best? Although disassembly of the cilium is a prerequisite for cell proliferation, it does not intrinsically drive tumorigenesis per se. Alternatively, we will explore the emerging evidence suggesting that some tumors depend on ciliary signaling. After reviewing the structure, genesis and signaling of cilia, the various ciliopathy syndromes and their genetics, we discuss the current debate of tumorigenesis as a ciliopathy spectrum defect, and describe recent advances in this fascinating field.","74":null,"75":"","76":" Pancreatic cysts are a heterogeneous group of lesions, which can be benign or malignant. Due to improved imaging techniques, physicians are more often confronted with pancreatic cysts. Little is known about the origin of pancreatic cysts in general. Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is an atypical ciliopathy and inherited tumor syndrome, caused by a mutation in the VHL tumor suppressor gene encoding the VHL protein (pVHL). VHL patients are prone to develop cysts and neuroendocrine tumors in the pancreas in addition to several other benign and malignant neoplasms. Remarkably, pancreatic cysts occur in approximately 70% of VHL patients, making it the only hereditary tumor syndrome with such a discernible expression of pancreatic cysts. Cellular loss of pVHL due to biallelic mutation can model pancreatic cystogenesis in other organisms, suggesting a causal relationship. Here, we give a comprehensive overview of various pVHL functions, focusing on those that can potentially explain pancreatic cyst development in VHL disease. Based on preclinical studies, cilia loss in ductal cells is probably an important early event in pancreatic cyst development.","77":null,"78":" Recent studies of the primary cilium have begun to provide further insights into ciliary ultrastructure, with an emerging picture of complex compartmentalization and molecular components that combine in functional modules. Many proteins that are mutated in ciliopathies are localized to the transition zone, a compartment of the proximal region of the cilium. The loss of these components can disrupt ciliary functions such as the control of protein entry and exit from the cilium, the possible trafficking of essential ciliary components, and the regulation of signaling cascades and control of the cell cycle. The discovery of functional modules within the primary cilium may help in understanding the variable phenotypes and pleiotropy in ciliopathies.","79":"","80":null,"81":" Primary cilia have recently been highlighted as key regulators in development and disease. This review focuses on current work demonstrating the broad role of cilia-related proteins in developmental signaling systems. Of particular consideration is the importance of the basal body region, located at the base of the cilium, in its role as a focal point for many signaling pathways and as a microtubule organizing center. As the cilium is effectively a microtubular extension of the cytoskeleton, investigating connections between the cilium and the cytoskeleton provides greater insight into signaling and cell function. Of the many signaling pathways associated with primary cilia, the most extensively studied in association with the cytoskeleton and cytoskeletal rearrangements are both canonical and non-canonical Wnt pathways. One of the key concepts currently emerging is a possible additional role for the traditionally 'cilia-related' proteins in other aspects of cellular processes. In many cases, disruption of such processes manifests at the level of the cilium. While the involvement of cilia and cilia-related proteins in signaling pathways is currently being unraveled, there is a growing body of evidence to support the notion that ciliary proteins are required not only for regulation of Wnt signaling, but also as downstream effectors of Wnt signaling. This review summarizes recent advances in our understanding of the involvement of cilia and basal body proteins in Wnt signaling pathways.","82":"","83":" Polarized vesicle trafficking is mediated by small GTPase proteins, such as Rabs and Arls\/Arfs. These proteins have essential roles in maintaining normal cellular function, in part, through regulating intracellular trafficking. Moreover, these families of proteins have recently been implicated in the formation and function of the primary cilium. The primary cilium, which is found on almost every cell type in vertebrates, is an organelle that protrudes from the surface of the cell and functions as a signaling center. Interestingly, it has recently been linked to a variety of human diseases, collectively referred to as ciliopathies. The primary cilium has an exceptionally high density of receptors on its membrane that are important for sensing and transducing extracellular stimuli. Moreover, the primary cilium serves as a separate cellular compartment from the cytosol, providing for unique spatial and temporal regulation of signaling molecules to initiate downstream events. Thus, functional primary cilia are essential for normal signal transduction. Rabs and Arls\/Arfs play critical roles in early cilia formation but are also needed for maintenance of ciliary function through their coordination with intraflagellar transport (IFT), a specialized trafficking system in primary cilia. IFT in cilia is pivotal for the proper movement of proteins into and out of this highly regulated organelle. In this review article, we explore the involvement of polarized vesicular trafficking in cilia formation and function, and discuss how defects in these processes could subsequently lead to the abnormalities observed in ciliopathies.","84":" The central tenet of cilia function is sensing and transmitting information. The capacity to directly contact extracellular surfaces would empower primary cilia to probe the environment for information about the nature and location of nearby surfaces. It has been well established that flagella and other motile cilia perform diverse cellular functions through adhesion. We hypothesized that mammalian primary cilia also interact with the extracellular environment through direct physical contact. We identified cilia in rod photoreceptors and cholangiocytes in fixed mouse tissues and examined the structures that these cilia contact in vivo. We then utilized an MDCK cell culture model to characterize the nature of the contacts we observed. In retina and liver tissue, we observed that cilia from nearby cells touch one another. Using MDCK cells, we found compelling evidence that these contacts are stable adhesions that form bridges between two cells, or networks between many cells. We examined the nature and duration of the cilia-cilia contacts and discovered primary cilia movements that facilitate cilia-cilia encounters. Stable adhesions form as the area of contact expands from a single point to a stretch of tightly bound, adjacent cilia membranes. The cilia-cilia contacts persisted for hours and were resistant to several harsh treatments such as proteases and DTT. Unlike many other cell adhesion mechanisms, calcium was not required for the formation or maintenance of cilia adhesion. However, swainsonine, which blocks maturation of N-linked glycoproteins, reduced contact formation. We propose that cellular control of adhesion maintenance is active because cilia adhesion did not prevent cell division; rather, contacts dissolved during mitosis as cilia were resorbed. The demonstration that mammalian primary cilia formed prolonged, direct, physical contacts supports a novel paradigm: that mammalian primary cilia detect features of the extracellular space, not just as passive antennae, but also through direct physical contact. We present a model for the cycle of glycoprotein-dependent contact formation, maintenance, and termination, and discuss the implications for potential physiological functions of cilia-cilia contacts. ","85":" The primary cilium is a microtubule-based, plasma membrane-ensheathed protrusion projecting from the basal bodies of almost all cell types in the mammalian body. In the past several years a plethora of papers has indicated a crucial role for primary cilia in the development of a wide variety of organs. We have investigated heart development in cobblestone, a hypomorphic allele of the gene encoding the intraflagellar transport protein Ift88, and uncovered a number of the most common congenital heart defects seen in newborn humans. We generated serial sections of mutant cobblestone and wild type embryos in the region encompassing the heart and the cardiac outflow tract. The sections were further processed to generate three-dimensional reconstructions of these structures, and immunofluorescence confocal microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and in situ hybridization were used to examine signal transduction pathways in the relevant areas. Whole mount in situ hybridization was also employed for certain developmental markers. In addition to an enlarged pericardium and failure of both ventricular and atrial septum formation, the cobblestone mutants displayed manifold defects in outflow tract formation, including persistent truncus arteriosus, an overriding aorta, and abnormal transformation of the aortic arches. To discern the basis of these anomalies we examined both the maintenance of primary cilia as well as endogenous and migratory embryonic cell populations that contribute to the outflow tract and atrioventricular septa. The colonization of the embryonic heart by cardiac neural crest occurred normally in the cobblestone mutant, as did the expression of Sonic hedgehog. However, with the loss of primary cilia in the mutant hearts, there was a loss of both downstream Sonic hedgehog signaling and of Islet 1 expression in the second heart field, a derivative of the pharyngeal mesoderm. In addition, defects were recorded in development of atrial laterality and ventricular myocardiogenesis. Finally, we observed a reduction in expression of Bmp4 in the outflow tract, and complete loss of expression of both Bmp2 and Bmp4 in the atrioventricular endocardial cushions. Loss of BMP2\/4 signaling may result in the observed proliferative defect in the endocardial cushions, which give rise to both the atrioventricular septa as well as to the septation of the outflow tract. Taken together, our results potentially identify a novel link between Sonic hedgehog signaling at the primary cilium and BMP-dependent effects upon cardiogenesis. Our data further point to a potential linkage of atrioventricular septal defects, the most common congenital heart defects, to genes of the transport machinery or basal body of the cilia. ","86":" Ciliopathies encompass a broad array of clinical findings associated with genetic defects in biogenesis and\/or function of the primary cilium, a ubiquitous organelle involved in the transduction of diverse biological signals. Degeneration or dysfunction of retinal photoreceptors is frequently observed in diverse ciliopathies. The sensory cilium in a photoreceptor elaborates into unique outer segment discs that provide extensive surface area for maximal photon capture and efficient visual transduction. The daily renewal of approximately 10% of outer segments requires a precise control of ciliary transport. Here, we review the ciliopathies with associated retinal degeneration, describe the distinctive structure of the photoreceptor cilium, and discuss mouse models that allow investigations into molecular mechanisms of cilia biogenesis and defects. We have specifically focused on two ciliary proteins - CEP290 and RPGR - that underlie photoreceptor degeneration and syndromic ciliopathies. Mouse models of CEP290 and RPGR disease, and of their multiple interacting partners, have helped unravel new functional insights into cell type-specific phenotypic defects in distinct ciliary proteins. Elucidation of multifaceted ciliary functions and associated protein complexes will require concerted efforts to assimilate diverse datasets from in vivo and in vitro studies. We therefore discuss a possible framework for investigating genetic networks associated with photoreceptor cilia biogenesis and pathology.","87":"Tubby is the founding member of the tubby-like family of proteins. The naturally occurring tubby mutation in mice causes retinitis pigmentosa, hearing loss and obesity. Tubby has been proposed to function as an accessory factor in ciliary trafficking. We directly examined a role for tubby in ciliary trafficking in vivo. We used immunofluoresence labeling to examine the subcellular localization of rhodopsin, somatostatin receptor 3 (SSTR3) and melanin concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1), all of which are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR), in the retina and brain of wild type (WT) and tubby mutant mice. In tubby mouse retina, rhodopsin is not fully transported across the connecting cilia to the outer segments with ensuing photoreceptor degeneration. In the tubby mouse brain, SSTR3 and MCHR1 fail to localize at the neuronal primary cilia in regions where these receptors play critical roles in neural signaling. The tubby mutant does not manifest a generalized defect in ciliogenesis or protein trafficking. Tubby plays a critical role in trafficking select GPCRs to the cilia. This role is reminiscent of tubby-like proteins 1 and 3, which have been proposed to facilitate trafficking of rhodopsin and select GPCRs in photoreceptors and the developing neural tube, respectively. Thus tubby-like proteins may be generally involved in transciliary trafficking of GPCRs. ","88":null,"89":" Mutations in the gene for Usher syndrome 2A (USH2A) are causative for non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa and Usher syndrome, a condition that is the most common cause of combined deaf-blindness. To gain insight into the molecular pathology underlying USH2A-associated retinal degeneration, we aimed to identify interacting proteins of USH2A isoform B (USH2AisoB) in the retina. We identified the centrosomal and microtubule-associated protein sperm-associated antigen (SPAG)5 in the retina. SPAG5 was also found to interact with another previously described USH2AisoB interaction partner: the centrosomal ninein-like protein NINLisoB. Using In situ hybridization, we found that Spag5 was widely expressed during murine embryonic development, with prominent signals in the eye, cochlea, brain, kidney and liver. SPAG5 expression in adult human tissues was detected by quantitative PCR, which identified expression in the retina, brain, intestine, kidney and testis. In the retina, Spag5, Ush2aisoB and NinlisoB were present at several subcellular structures of photoreceptor cells, and colocalized at the basal bodies. Based on these results and on the suggested roles for USH proteins in vesicle transport and providing structural support to both the inner ear and the retina, we hypothesize that SPAG5, USH2AisoB and NINLisoB may function together in microtubule-based cytoplasmic trafficking of proteins that are essential for cilium formation, maintenance and\/or function. ","90":" Primary cilia are present on almost all vertebrate cells, and they have diverse functions in distinct tissues. Cilia are important for sensation in multiple capacities in contexts as different as the retina, kidney, and inner ear. In addition to these roles, cilia play a critical part in various developmental processes. Of particular importance is the development of the neural tube, where cilia are essential for the transduction of the Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) signaling pathway that specifies neuronal cell fates. This relationship is well established and is the most recognizable function for cilia in the neural tube, but it may be part of a larger picture. Here, we discuss the links between cilia and Shh signaling, as well as suggesting additional roles for cilia, and mechanisms for their placement, in the neural tube.","91":null,"92":" Changes in genes coding for ciliary proteins contribute to complex human syndromes called ciliopathies, such as Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (BBS). We used the model organism Paramecium to focus on ciliary ion channels that affect the beat form and sensory function of motile cilia and evaluate the effects of perturbing BBS proteins on these channels. We used immunoprecipitations and mass spectrometry to explore whether Paramecium proteins interact as in mammalian cells. We used RNA interference (RNAi) and swimming behavior assays to examine the effects of BBS depletion on ciliary ion channels that control ciliary beating. Combining RNA interference and epitope tagging, we examined the effects of BBS depletion of BBS 7, 8 and 9 on the location of three channels and a chemoreceptor in cilia. We found 10 orthologs of 8 BBS genes in P. tetraurelia. BBS1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9 co-immunoprecipitate. While RNAi reduction of BBS 7 and 9 gene products caused loss and shortening of cilia, RNAi for all BBS genes except BBS2 affected patterns of ciliary motility that are governed by ciliary ion channels. Swimming behavior assays pointed to loss of ciliary K+ channel function. Combining RNAi and epitope tagged ciliary proteins we demonstrated that a calcium activated K+ channel was no longer located in the cilia upon depletion of BBS 7, 8 or 9, consistent with the cells' swimming behavior. The TRPP channel PKD2 was also lost from the cilia. In contrast, the ciliary voltage gated calcium channel was unaffected by BBS depletion, consistent with behavioral assays. The ciliary location of a chemoreceptor for folate was similarly unperturbed by the depletion of BBS 7, 8 or 9. The co-immunoprecipitation of BBS 1,2,4,5,7,8, and 9 suggests a complex of BBS proteins. RNAi for BBS 7, 8 or 9 gene products causes the selective loss of K+ and PKD2 channels from the cilia while the critical voltage gated calcium channel and a peripheral receptor protein remain undisturbed. These channels govern ciliary beating and sensory function. Importantly, in P. tetraurelia we can combine studies of ciliopathy protein function with behavior and location and control of ciliary channels. ","93":null,"94":null,"95":null,"96":"Primary cilia have been previously linked to the central regulation of satiety. The tubby mouse is characterized by maturity-onset obesity and blindness. A recent paper demonstrates molecular defects in trafficking of ciliary GPCRs in the central neurons of tubby mice, underscoring the role of ciliary signaling in the pathogenesis of this monogenic obesity syndrome. Please see related Research article by Li et al., http:\/\/www.ciliajournal.com\/content\/1\/1\/21. ","97":null,"98":" Ever since Edouard Van Beneden and Theodor Boveri first formally described the centrosome in the late 1800s, it has captivated cell biologists. The name clearly indicated its central importance to cell functioning, even to these early investigators. We now know of its role as a major microtubule-organizing center (MTOC) and of its dynamic roles in cell division, vesicle trafficking and for its relative, the basal body, ciliogenesis. While centrosomes are found in most animal cells, notably it is absent in most oocytes and higher plant cells. Nevertheless, it appears that critical components of the centrosome act as MTOCs in these cells as well. The zebrafish has emerged as an exciting and promising new model organism, primarily due to the pioneering efforts of George Streisinger to use zebrafish in genetic studies and due to Christiane Nusslein-Volhard, Wolfgang Driever and their teams of collaborators, who applied forward genetics to elicit a large number of mutant lines. The transparency and rapid external development of the embryo allow for experiments not easily done in other vertebrates. The ease of producing transgenic lines, often with the use of fluorescent reporters, and gene knockdowns with antisense morpholinos further contributes to the appeal of the model as an experimental system. The added advantage of high-throughput screening of small-molecule libraries, as well as the ease of mass rearing together with low cost, makes the zebrafish a true frontrunner as a model vertebrate organism. The zebrafish has a body plan shared by all vertebrates, including humans. This conservation of body plan provides added significance to the existing lines of zebrafish as human disease models and adds an impetus to the ongoing efforts to develop new models. In this review, the current state of knowledge about the centrosome in the zebrafish model is explored. Also, studies on the related basal body in zebrafish and their relationship to ciliogenesis are reviewed.","99":null,"100":"Most cells in the body possess a single primary cilium. These cilia are key transducers of sensory stimuli, and defects in cilia have been linked to several diseases. Evidence suggests that some transduction of sensory stimuli by the primary cilium depends on ion-conducting channels. However, the tiny size of the cilium has been a critical barrier to understanding its electrical properties. We report a novel method that allows sensitive, repeatable electrical recordings from primary cilia. Adherent cells were grown on small, spherical beads that could be easily moved within the recording chamber. In this configuration, an entire cilium could be pulled into a recording microelectrode. In 47% of attempts, suction resulted in a seal with high input resistance. Single channels could be recorded while the cilium remained attached to the cell. When the pipette was raised into the air, the cell body was pulled off at the air-bath interface. The pipette retained the cilium and could then be immersed in various solutions that bathed the cytoplasmic face of the membrane. In excised cilia, ionic currents through ciliary channels were modulated by cytoplasmic Ca(2+) and transmembrane voltage. Ciliary recording is a direct way to learn the effects of second messengers and voltage changes on ciliary transduction channels. ","101":"Primary cilia are microtubule-based sensory organelles that play important roles in developmental signaling pathways. Recent work demonstrated that, in cell culture, the daughter cell that inherits the older mother centriole generates a primary cilium and responds to external stimuli prior to its sister cell. This asynchrony in timing of cilia formation could be especially critical during development as cell divisions are required for both differentiation and maintenance of progenitor cell niches. Here we integrate several fluorescent markers and use ex vivo live imaging of a single cell division within the mouse E8.5 neuroepithelium to reveal both the formation of a primary cilium and the transcriptional response to Sonic hedgehog in the daughter cells. We show that, upon cell division, cilia formation and the Sonic hedgehog response are asynchronous between the daughter cells. Our results demonstrate that we can directly observe single cell divisions within the developing neuroepithelium and concomitantly monitor cilium formation or Sonic hedgehog response. We expect this method to be especially powerful in examining whether cellular behavior can lead to both differentiation and maintenance of cells in a progenitor niche. "},"articletitle":{"0":"SF-Assemblin genes in Paramecium: phylogeny and phenotypes of RNAi silencing on the ciliary-striated rootlets and surface organization.","1":"New software for automated cilia detection in cells (ACDC).","2":"Cellular ciliary phenotyping indicates pathogenicity of novel variants in IFT140 and confirms a Mainzer-Saldino syndrome diagnosis.","3":"Glioma cell proliferation is enhanced in the presence of tumor-derived cilia vesicles.","4":null,"5":"Evidence of primary cilia in the developing rat heart.","6":"Sensing the cilium, digital capture of ciliary data for comparative genomics investigations.","7":"Assaying sensory ciliopathies using calcium biosensor expression in zebrafish ciliated olfactory neurons.","8":"The Gene Ontology of eukaryotic cilia and flagella.","9":"The rise and fall of basal bodies in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.","10":"Nuclear roles for cilia-associated proteins.","11":"Mutations in IFT-A satellite core component genes IFT43 and IFT121 produce short rib polydactyly syndrome with distinctive campomelia.","12":"Basal body positioning and anchoring in the multiciliated cell Paramecium tetraurelia: roles of OFD1 and VFL3.","13":"Fixation methods can differentially affect ciliary protein immunolabeling.","14":"La-related protein 6 controls ciliated cell differentiation.","15":"Patient-specific three-dimensional explant spheroids derived from human nasal airway epithelium: a simple methodological approach for ex vivo studies of primary ciliary dyskinesia.","16":"Abnormal glycosylation in Joubert syndrome type 10.","17":"CILIA: before and after.","18":"Using sea urchin gametes and zygotes to investigate centrosome duplication.","19":"The IN\/OUT assay: a new tool to study ciliogenesis.","20":"Drosophila melanogaster as a model for basal body research.","21":"Eight unique basal bodies in the multi-flagellated diplomonad Giardia lamblia.","22":"Ciliogenesis and the DNA damage response: a stressful relationship.","23":"The cilia-regulated proteasome and its role in the development of ciliopathies and cancer.","24":"The basal bodies of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.","25":"Zebrafish: a vertebrate tool for studying basal body biogenesis, structure, and function.","26":"Flagellar apparatus structure of choanoflagellates.","27":"Update on oral-facial-digital syndromes (OFDS).","28":"A primer on the mouse basal body.","29":"A novel ICK mutation causes ciliary disruption and lethal endocrine-cerebro-osteodysplasia syndrome.","30":"Naegleria: a classic model for de novo basal body assembly.","31":"Basal bodies across eukaryotes series: basal bodies in the freshwater planarian Schmidtea mediterranea.","32":"Human basal body basics.","33":"Basal body structure in Trichonympha.","34":"Measuring the primary cilium length: improved method for unbiased high-throughput analysis.","35":"Paramecium tetraurelia basal body structure.","36":"Basal body structure and cell cycle-dependent biogenesis in Trypanosoma brucei.","37":"Basal body structure and composition in the apicomplexans Toxoplasma and Plasmodium.","38":"Cilia in autophagy and cancer.","39":"Basal bodies in Xenopus.","40":"Tetrahymena basal bodies.","41":"Current topics of functional links between primary cilia and cell cycle.","42":"Culture and detection of primary cilia in endothelial cell models.","43":"Comparing the Bbs10 complete knockout phenotype with a specific renal epithelial knockout one highlights the link between renal defects and systemic inactivation in mice.","44":"The Drosophila homologue of Rootletin is required for mechanosensory function and ciliary rootlet formation in chordotonal sensory neurons.","45":"Non-invasive sources of cells with primary cilia from pediatric and adult patients.","46":"The primary cilium functions as a mechanical and calcium signaling nexus.","47":"The more we know, the more we have to discover: an exciting future for understanding cilia and ciliopathies.","48":"Calcium sensors of ciliary outer arm dynein: functions and phylogenetic considerations for eukaryotic evolution.","49":"Ultrastructural visualization of trans-ciliary rhodopsin cargoes in mammalian rods.","50":"Cryo-electron tomography of motile cilia and flagella.","51":"Diagnosis and management of primary ciliary dyskinesia.","52":null,"53":"Remodeling Cildb, a popular database for cilia and links for ciliopathies.","54":"Editorial.","55":"Identification of conserved, centrosome-targeting ASH domains in TRAPPII complex subunits and TRAPPC8.","56":"Loss of primary cilia occurs early in breast cancer development.","57":"Mitochondrial fusion protein MFN2 interacts with the mitostatin-related protein MNS1 required for mouse sperm flagellar structure and function.","58":"Normal mammary development and function in mice with Ift88 deleted in MMTV- and K14-Cre expressing cells.","59":"Functional modelling of a novel mutation in BBS5.","60":"Reduction of meckelin leads to general loss of cilia, ciliary microtubule misalignment and distorted cell surface organization.","61":"Enhanced response to pulmonary Streptococcus pneumoniae infection is associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia in mice lacking Pcdp1 and Spef2.","62":null,"63":"Getting to the heart of intraflagellar transport using Trypanosoma and Chlamydomonas models: the strength is in their differences.","64":"Flagellar central pair assembly in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.","65":"New mutations in flagellar motors identified by whole genome sequencing in Chlamydomonas.","66":"Ciliogenesis and cerebrospinal fluid flow in the developing Xenopus brain are regulated by foxj1.","67":"The Small GTPase Rsg1 is important for the cytoplasmic localization and axonemal dynamics of intraflagellar transport proteins.","68":"CP110 and its network of partners coordinately regulate cilia assembly.","69":"Molecular connections between nuclear and ciliary import processes.","70":"Intraflagellar transport complex structure and cargo interactions.","71":"An inducible CiliaGFP mouse model for in vivo visualization and analysis of cilia in live tissue.","72":"The SYSCILIA gold standard (SCGSv1) of known ciliary components and its applications within a systems biology consortium.","73":"Functional aspects of primary cilia in signaling, cell cycle and tumorigenesis.","74":"The effect of ethanol and acetaldehyde on brain ependymal and respiratory ciliary beat frequency.","75":"First International Cilia in Development and Disease Scientific Conference (2012) London, UK.  16-18 May 2012. Abstracts.","76":"Pancreatic cyst development: insights from von Hippel-Lindau disease.","77":"Reduced cilia frequencies in human renal cell carcinomas versus neighboring parenchymal tissue.","78":"The transition zone: an essential functional compartment of cilia.","79":"Cilia - the prodigal organelle.","80":"Analysis of ependymal ciliary beat pattern and beat frequency using high speed imaging: comparison with the photomultiplier and photodiode methods.","81":"Cilia, Wnt signaling, and the cytoskeleton.","82":"Cilia develop long-lasting contacts, with other cilia.","83":"Trafficking in and to the primary cilium.","84":"Primary cilia utilize glycoprotein-dependent adhesion mechanisms to stabilize long-lasting cilia-cilia contacts.","85":"Multiple essential roles for primary cilia in heart development.","86":"Photoreceptor sensory cilia and ciliopathies: focus on CEP290, RPGR and their interacting proteins.","87":"Tubby is required for trafficking G protein-coupled receptors to neuronal cilia.","88":"Mammalian Clusterin associated protein 1 is an evolutionarily conserved protein required for ciliogenesis.","89":"The mitotic spindle protein SPAG5\/Astrin connects to the Usher protein network postmitotically.","90":"What are those cilia doing in the neural tube?","91":"Founder mutations and genotype-phenotype correlations in Meckel-Gruber syndrome and associated ciliopathies.","92":"Paramecium BBS genes are key to presence of channels in Cilia.","93":"Primary cilia and aberrant cell signaling in epithelial ovarian cancer.","94":"ciliaFA: a research tool for automated, high-throughput measurement of ciliary beat frequency using freely available software.","95":"Ciliary and non-ciliary expression and function of PACRG during vertebrate development.","96":"Cilia, tubby mice, and obesity.","97":"The effect of halothane and pentobarbital sodium on brain ependymal cilia.","98":"Centrosomes in the zebrafish (Danio rerio): a review including the related basal body.","99":"Development of a method for the measurement of primary cilia length in 3D.","100":"A method for measuring electrical signals in a primary cilium.","101":"Live imaging of individual cell divisions in mouse neuroepithelium shows asymmetry in cilium formation and Sonic hedgehog response."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":"","84":"","85":"","86":"","87":"","88":"","89":"","90":"","91":"","92":"","93":"","94":"","95":"","96":"","97":"","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Cilia","1":"Cilia","2":"Cilia","3":"Cilia","4":"Cilia","5":"Cilia","6":"Cilia","7":"Cilia","8":"Cilia","9":"Cilia","10":"Cilia","11":"Cilia","12":"Cilia","13":"Cilia","14":"Cilia","15":"Cilia","16":"Cilia","17":"Cilia","18":"Cilia","19":"Cilia","20":"Cilia","21":"Cilia","22":"Cilia","23":"Cilia","24":"Cilia","25":"Cilia","26":"Cilia","27":"Cilia","28":"Cilia","29":"Cilia","30":"Cilia","31":"Cilia","32":"Cilia","33":"Cilia","34":"Cilia","35":"Cilia","36":"Cilia","37":"Cilia","38":"Cilia","39":"Cilia","40":"Cilia","41":"Cilia","42":"Cilia","43":"Cilia","44":"Cilia","45":"Cilia","46":"Cilia","47":"Cilia","48":"Cilia","49":"Cilia","50":"Cilia","51":"Cilia","52":"Cilia","53":"Cilia","54":"Cilia","55":"Cilia","56":"Cilia","57":"Cilia","58":"Cilia","59":"Cilia","60":"Cilia","61":"Cilia","62":"Cilia","63":"Cilia","64":"Cilia","65":"Cilia","66":"Cilia","67":"Cilia","68":"Cilia","69":"Cilia","70":"Cilia","71":"Cilia","72":"Cilia","73":"Cilia","74":"Cilia","75":"Cilia","76":"Cilia","77":"Cilia","78":"Cilia","79":"Cilia","80":"Cilia","81":"Cilia","82":"Cilia","83":"Cilia","84":"Cilia","85":"Cilia","86":"Cilia","87":"Cilia","88":"Cilia","89":"Cilia","90":"Cilia","91":"Cilia","92":"Cilia","93":"Cilia","94":"Cilia","95":"Cilia","96":"Cilia","97":"Cilia","98":"Cilia","99":"Cilia","100":"Cilia","101":"Cilia"},"keyword":{"0":"Basal bodyCiliaRNAiStriated rootlet","1":"Automated cilia analysisF1 scoreFalse negativeFalse positiveImage analysisPrimary ciliaSoftware","2":null,"3":"Arl13bBuddingCancerF-actinGlioblastomaPrimary ciliaProliferationSmoothenedVesicle","4":null,"5":"ARL13BCardiac trabeculaeIsolated cardiomyocytesPrimary ciliaRat cardiac tissue","6":"CiliaCiliary-related diseaseCiliopathyCurationFlagellaGene Ontology","7":"Calcium imagingCiliaGCaMP5Olfactory sensory neuronsZebrafishift172oval\/ift88","8":"AxonemeBasal bodyCiliopathyCiliumFlagellumGene OntologyMicroscopy image annotationSystems biology","9":"Basal bodyC. elegansCentral tubeCentrioleDegenerationDiverse cilia morphologiesSensory neuronsUltrastructure","10":"","11":"CartilageCiliaIFTIFT-A complexIFT121IFT43Intraflagellar transportRetrograde transportSRPSShort rib polydactyly syndromeSkeletal ciliopathy","12":"AnchoringBasal bodyOFD1-VFL3\/CCDC61Rotational asymmetry","13":"FixationImmunocytochemistryPrimary ciliaTechnique","14":"CiliaLARP6Xenopusmcidas","15":"Airway epithelialCell cultureCilia, ciliogenesisCiliary beat frequencyCiliary beat patternDiagnosisPrimary ciliary dyskinesiaThree-dimensional explant spheroids","16":"CMP-sialic acidCiliopathyGlycosylationJoubert syndromeMolar tooth sign","17":"AutophagyCiliary motilityCiliogenesisCiliopathiesIntraflagellar transport (IFT)NucleoporinPrimary ciliaTransition zone","18":"CentrioleCentrosomeDuplicationEchinodermEggSea urchinSpermZygote","19":"Ciliary pocketCiliogenesisExocytosisLight microscopyPrimary cilia","20":"CentrioleDiverse basal bodiesDrosophilaEvolutionary cell biologyInsectsMale fertilityMotile and immotile ciliaSensory function","21":"AxonemesBasal bodyFlagellaGiardia lamblia","22":"CancerCell cycleCiliaCiliopathiesDNA damage responseStress signalling","23":null,"24":"CartwheelCentrin fibersSite-specific basal body duplicationTransition zone","25":"Basal bodiesCentriole duplicationCiliopathiesCrisprUltrastructureZebrafish","26":"Basal bodyCentral filamentChoanoflagellatesFlagellar apparatusMTOC","27":"CiliaDevelopmental disordersOFDS","28":"Basal bodyBasal footDaughter centrioleDistal appendageMotile ciliumMus musculusPrimary ciliumRootletSubdistal appendageTransition fiber","29":"Ciliary defectsCiliopathyECOEndocrine-cerebro-osteodysplasia syndromeICKIntestinal cell kinaseSRTDShort-rib thoracic dysplasia syndrome","30":"","31":"Basal footDe novo basal body assemblyMulticiliated cellPlanaria","32":"Basal bodyCentrosomeCiliopathyCiliumHuman","33":"CartwheelCryo-tomographyLong centrioleTrichonympha","34":"Cilium lengthMeasurementsMethodsPrimary cilia","35":"Basal body assemblyBasal body dockingCiliogenesisParameciumTransition zone","36":"AxonemeBasal bodyCentrioleCiliumFlagellar pocketFlagellumMicrotubulesTrypanosoma brucei","37":"CentrioleCoccidiaFlagellumMalariaMicrogameteMicrotubule organizing center","38":"AutophagyCancerCell cycleCiliaCilia-related signaling","39":"Basal bodyCentrioleCiliaCiliogenesisDeuterosomeMulticiliated cellsXenopus","40":"Basal bodyCentrioleCiliateMicrotubuleTetrahymena","41":null,"42":"Cilia incidenceCobblestone morphologyFoetal bovine serumHMEC-1HUVECPrimary ciliumSerum starvation","43":null,"44":"Basal bodyCentrosomeDrosophilaRootletRootletinSensory cilium","45":"Cell cultureCiliaCiliopathyDeciduous toothPediatricsProtocolUrine","46":"BiosensorCalcium signalingKidney epitheliaMechanotransductionOsteocytePrimary cilium","47":"Basal bodiesCentriolesCiliaCiliopathiesDevelopmentFlagellaHedgehogIntraflagellarSignallingTransport","48":"AlgaeBikontCalaxinEukaryoteEvolutionExcavateExcavatesFertilizationNeuronal calcium sensorOpisthokontSperm","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"CiliaLeft-right organizerMotile ciliaNodalNodal flowNodePlanar cell polaritySensory ciliaSitus inversusTwo cilia model","53":"","54":"","55":"ASH domainCentrosomeCiliaGolgiMSP domainRab8Rabin8TPR repeatTRAPPII complexVesicle trafficking","56":"Cancer-associated stromaCarcinoma in situCilia lengthCiliogenesisInvasive breast cancerPrimary cilia","57":"AxonemeFlagellaMFN2MNS1MitochondriaMitostatinSperm","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"CiliaFuzIFTPCPRsg1","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":"","84":"","85":"","86":"","87":"","88":"","89":"","90":"","91":"","92":"","93":"","94":"","95":"","96":"","97":"","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":"Shhcell divisionex vivo live imagingimaging neuroepitheliumprimary cilia"},"pmid":{"0":31673332,"1":31388414,"2":30479745,"3":30410731,"4":30140428,"5":30079247,"6":29713460,"7":29568513,"8":29177046,"9":28770089,"10":28560031,"11":28400947,"12":28367320,"13":28352462,"14":28344782,"15":28344781,"16":28344780,"17":28293419,"18":27602205,"19":27493724,"20":27382461,"21":27379179,"22":27335639,"23":27293550,"24":27252853,"25":27168933,"26":27148446,"27":27141300,"28":27114821,"29":27069622,"30":27047659,"31":26998257,"32":26981235,"33":26937279,"34":26870322,"35":26862393,"36":26862392,"37":26855772,"38":26848389,"39":26848388,"40":26793300,"41":26719793,"42":26430510,"43":26273430,"44":26140210,"45":26034581,"46":26029358,"47":25974046,"48":25932323,"49":25664179,"50":25646146,"51":25610612,"52":25589952,"53":25422781,"54":25136442,"55":25018876,"56":24987519,"57":24876927,"58":24594320,"59":24559376,"60":24484742,"61":24360193,"62":24330727,"63":24289478,"64":24283352,"65":24229452,"66":24229449,"67":24192041,"68":24053599,"69":23985042,"70":23945166,"71":23819925,"72":23725226,"73":23628112,"74":23531143,"75":23391289,"76":23384121,"77":23369289,"78":23352055,"79":23351984,"80":23351965,"81":23351924,"82":23351843,"83":23351793,"84":23351752,"85":23351706,"86":23351659,"87":23351594,"88":23351563,"89":23351521,"90":23351466,"91":23351400,"92":23351336,"93":23351307,"94":23351276,"95":23351225,"96":23351214,"97":23351190,"98":23351173,"99":23351171,"100":23308345,"101":23145349},"pubdate_year":{"0":2019,"1":2019,"2":2018,"3":2018,"4":2018,"5":2018,"6":2018,"7":2018,"8":2017,"9":2017,"10":2017,"11":2017,"12":2017,"13":2017,"14":2017,"15":2017,"16":2017,"17":2017,"18":2016,"19":2016,"20":2016,"21":2016,"22":2016,"23":2016,"24":2016,"25":2016,"26":2016,"27":2016,"28":2016,"29":2016,"30":2016,"31":2016,"32":2016,"33":2016,"34":2016,"35":2015,"36":2015,"37":2015,"38":2015,"39":2015,"40":2015,"41":2015,"42":2015,"43":2015,"44":2015,"45":2015,"46":2015,"47":2015,"48":2015,"49":2015,"50":2015,"51":2015,"52":2015,"53":2014,"54":2014,"55":2014,"56":2014,"57":2014,"58":2014,"59":2014,"60":2014,"61":2013,"62":2013,"63":2013,"64":2013,"65":2013,"66":2013,"67":2013,"68":2013,"69":2013,"70":2013,"71":2013,"72":2013,"73":2013,"74":2013,"75":2012,"76":2013,"77":2013,"78":2012,"79":2012,"80":2012,"81":2012,"82":2012,"83":2012,"84":2012,"85":2012,"86":2012,"87":2012,"88":2012,"89":2012,"90":2012,"91":2012,"92":2012,"93":2012,"94":2012,"95":2012,"96":2013,"97":2012,"98":2012,"99":2012,"100":2012,"101":2012}}