{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54,"55":55,"56":56,"57":57,"58":58,"59":59,"60":60,"61":61,"62":62,"63":63,"64":64,"65":65,"66":66,"67":67,"68":68,"69":69,"70":70,"71":71,"72":72,"73":73,"74":74,"75":75,"76":76,"77":77,"78":78,"79":79,"80":80,"81":81,"82":82,"83":83,"84":84,"85":85,"86":86,"87":87,"88":88,"89":89,"90":90,"91":91,"92":92,"93":93,"94":94,"95":95,"96":96,"97":97,"98":98,"99":99,"100":100,"101":101,"102":102,"103":103,"104":104,"105":105,"106":106,"107":107,"108":108,"109":109,"110":110,"111":111,"112":112,"113":113,"114":114,"115":115,"116":116,"117":117,"118":118,"119":119,"120":120,"121":121,"122":122,"123":123,"124":124,"125":125,"126":126,"127":127,"128":128,"129":129,"130":130,"131":131,"132":132,"133":133,"134":134,"135":135,"136":136,"137":137,"138":138,"139":139,"140":140,"141":141,"142":142,"143":143,"144":144,"145":145,"146":146,"147":147,"148":148,"149":149,"150":150,"151":151,"152":152,"153":153,"154":154,"155":155,"156":156,"157":157,"158":158,"159":159,"160":160,"161":161,"162":162,"163":163,"164":164,"165":165,"166":166,"167":167,"168":168,"169":169,"170":170,"171":171,"172":172,"173":173,"174":174},"abstracttext":{"0":"The practice of healing by anyone other than qualified doctors or pharmacists has been allegedly illegal in France since the nineteenth century. In this judicial order, the state delegated the power to oversee the boundaries of medicine to doctors and pharmacists, allowing them, with support from criminal courts, to determine which therapeutic techniques should remain their exclusive right. In practice, this apparently neat legal system was never clear-cut; therapists without medical qualifications continued to infringe upon spaces that doctors and pharmacists saw as their preserve, often carving out zones of juridical tolerance. In the 1980s and 1990s, negotiations over the legality or illegality of different kinds of healing intensified. Alternative therapies, such as acupuncture and herbalism, had gained in popularity and their practitioners were keen to negotiate a legal position that would make their work licit. While some succeeded, others got entangled in a new governmental framework that characterized alternative medicines as gateways to \"sects.\" This article examines these developments and explains how new juridical techniques to govern certaintherapies arose in the 1990s. These operated through decentralized surveillance systems that enrolled new actors. These included agencies dedicated to monitoring sects; associations of victims; and individuals such as users, their families, or health professionals. Together, they aimed to \"prevent\" deviant behavior, thereby fostering what is today one of the most peculiar features of the way the French state regulates alternative healing, which it considers potentially \"cult-like.\"","1":null,"2":null,"3":null,"4":null,"5":"From the end of the thirteenth century, when the practice of human anatomical dissections emerged in Europe, the dead body became part of the cultural economy of knowledge. This had epistemic, technical, and social consequences, in which the affective dimension played a crucial role. The type of manipulations the corpse underwent brought into play affective phenomena of unusual intensity. To a great extent, anatomy owed its repertoire of gestures, spaces, and instruments to the need to control these affects, and this repertoire contributed to the discourse that shaped the\nprofessional identity of anatomists. Rather than being simply knowledge trapped in a web of preexisting sensibilities, anatomy was, in early modern Europe, a locus where affective cultures were produced and negotiated among several professional and social groups.","6":null,"7":"This essay examines how psychosomatic medicine, as it emerged between 1920 and 1960, introduced new ideas about the emotional body and the emotional self. Focusing on cancer, a shift can be mapped over the course of the twentieth century. While cancer was regarded at the beginning of the century as the organic disease par excellence, traceable to malignant cells and thus not caused or influenced by emotions,\nin later decades it would come to be thoroughly investigated within the field of psychosomatic medicine. This essay illuminates why and how this shift occurred in Germany and how it was affected by the earlier turn toward a psychosomatic understanding of cancer in the United States.","8":null,"9":null,"10":null,"11":"The category of panic disorder was significantly indebted to early psychopharmacological experiments (in the late 1950s and early 1960s) by the psychiatrist Donald Klein, in collaboration with Max Fink. Klein's technique of \"psychopharmacological dissection\" underpinned his transformation of clinical accounts of anxiety and was central in effecting the shift from agoraphobic anxiety (with its spatial imaginary of city squares and streets) to panic. This technique disaggregated the previously unitary affect of anxiety-as advanced in psychoanalytic accounts-into two physiological and phenomenological kinds. \"Psychopharmacological dissection\" depended on particular modes of clinical observation to assess drug action and to interpret patient behavior. The \"intimate geographies\" out of which panic disorder emerged comprised both the socio-spatial dynamics of observation on the psychiatric ward and Klein's use of John Bowlby's model of separation anxiety-as it played out between the dyad of infant and mother-to interpret his adult patients' affectively disordered behavior. This essay, in offering a historical geography of mid-twentieth-century anxiety and panic, emphasizes the importance of socio-spatial setting in understanding how clinical and scientific experimentation opens up new ways in which affects can be expressed, shaped, observed, and understood.","12":null,"13":"Using mid-twentieth-century American psychology as my focus, I explore how scientific psychology was constructed as a distinctly masculine enterprise and was navigated by those who did not conform easily to this masculine ideal. I show how women emerged as problems for science through the vigorous gatekeeping activities and personal and professional writings of disciplinary figurehead Edwin G. Boring. I trace Boring's intellectual and professional socialization into masculine science and his efforts to understand women's apparent lack of scientific eminence, efforts that were clearly undergirded by preexisting and widely shared assumptions about men's and women's capacities and preferences.","14":"At the conclusion of the Second World War, more than 600,000 men returned to the United States with long-term disabilities, profoundly destabilizing the definitions, representations, and experiences of male sexuality in America. By examining an oft-neglected 1950 film, The Men, along with medical, personal, and popular accounts of impotence in paralyzed World War II veterans, this essay excavates the contours of that change and its attendant anxieties. While previous scholarship on film and sexuality in the postwar period has focused on women's experiences, we broaden the analytical lens to provide a fuller picture of the various meanings of male sexuality, especially disabled heterosexuality. In postwar America, the paralyzed veteran created a temporary fissure in conventional discussions of the gendered body, a moment when the \"normality\" and performative features of the male body could not be assumed but rather had to be actively defined. To many veterans, and to the medical men who treated them, sexual reproduction--not function-became the ultimate signifier of remasculinization.","15":"During the 1960s and 1970s, Kurt Freund and other researchers developed phallometry to demonstrate the effectiveness of behaviorism in the diagnosis and treatment of male homosexuality and pedophilia. Researchers used phallometers to segment different aspects of male arousal, to discern cryptic hierarchies of eroticism, and to monitor the effectiveness of treatments to change an individual's sexuality. Phallometry ended up challenging the expectations of behaviorist researchers by demonstrating that most men could not change their sexual preferences--no matter how hard they tried or how hard others tried to change them. This knowledge, combined with challenges mounted by gay political activists, eventually motivated Freund and other researchers to revise their ideas of what counted as therapy. Phallometric studies ultimately revealed the limitations of efforts to shape \"abnormal\" and \"normal\" masculinity and heralded the rise of biologically determinist theories of sexuality.","16":null,"17":"Golden-age mountaineers attempted to codify gender, like flora and fauna, by altitude. They zoned the high Alps masculine. As women also reached into the highest regions, male alpinists increasingly turned to their bodies, and the bodies of their guides, to give scientific validity to their all-male preserve. Edward Whymper traveled to the Andes in 1879, where he transformed Chimborazo into a laboratory and his own body and those of his guides into scientific objects. His work helped spearhead a field-based, vertical approach to human physiology that proliferated after the turn of the century. By viewing gender through a spatial lens and using the sides of mountains to map it, this essay highlights the gendered notions that directed early research in high-altitude physiology.","18":"In the first decade of Republican China (1911-49), masculinity was explored in writings on how to manufacture makeup that appeared in women's magazines. Male authors and editors of these writings--some of whom were connoisseurs of technology, some of whom were would-be manufacturers--appropriated the tropes of the domestic and feminine to elevate hands-on work and explore industry and manufacturing as legitimate masculine pursuits. Tapping into time-honored discourses of virtuous productivity in the inner chambers and employing practices of appropriating the woman's voice to promote unorthodox sentiment, these recipes \"feminized\" production to valorize a new masculine agenda, which included chemistry and manufacturing, for building a new China.","19":"Millions of Soviet soldiers were disabled as a direct consequence of their service in the Second World War. Yet despite its expressions of gratitude for their sacrifices, the state evinced a great deal of discomfort regarding their damaged bodies. The countless armless and legless veterans were a constant reminder of the destruction suffered by the country as a whole, an association increasingly incompatible with the postwar agenda of wholesale reconstruction. This article focuses on a key strategy for erasing the scars of war, one with ostensibly unambiguous benefit for the disabled themselves: the development of prostheses. In addition to fostering independence from others and ultimately from the state, artificial limbs would facilitate the veterans' return to the kinds of socially useful labor by which the country defined itself. In so doing, this strategy engendered the establishment of a new model of masculinity: a prosthetic manhood.","20":"Americans crowded newsstands in early 1910 to read Robert Peary's firsthand account of his expedition to the North Pole. As they read \"The Discovery of the North Pole,\" serialized exclusively in Hampton's Magazine, few knew that this harrowing, hypermasculine tale was really crafted by New York poet Elsa Barker. Barker's authorship of the North Pole story put her at the center of a large community of explorers, writers, patrons, and fans who were taken with Arctic exploration as much for its national symbolism as for its thrilling tales. The fact that Barker was a woman made her ascent into elite expeditionary circles remarkable. Yet this essay argues that it was also representative: women shaped the ideas and practices of manly exploration at home as well as in the field. Peary's dependence upon women writers, patrons, and audiences came at a time when explorers were breaking away from their traditional base of support: male scientific networks that had promoted their expeditions since the 1850s. Despite the \"go-it-alone\" ideals of their expedition accounts, explorers adopted masculine roles shaped by the world around them: by the growing influence of women writers, readers, and lecture-goers and, simultaneously, by the declining influence of traditional scientific peers and patrons. Barker and Peary's story, then, reveals a new fault line that opened up between scientists and explorers in the late nineteenth century over the issue of manliness, a fault line still largely uncharted in historical scholarship.","21":"By the late 1950s, Harry Frank Guggenheim was concerned with understanding why some charismatic leaders fought for freedom, while others sought power and domination. He believed that best-selling books on ethological approaches to animal and human behavior, especially those by playwright and screenwriter Robert Ardrey, promised a key to this dilemma, and he created a foundation that would fund research addressing problems of violence, aggression, and dominance. Under the directorship of Rutgers University professors Robin Fox and Lionel Tiger, the Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation fostered scientific investigations into the biological basis of human nature. This essay analyzes their discussions of aggression as fundamental to the behavior of men in groups in order to elucidate the private and professional dimensions of masculine networks of US philanthropic and academic authority in the late 1960s and 1970s.","22":"Over the course of the 1960s and 1970s, male computer experts were able to successfully transform the \"routine and mechanical\" (and therefore feminized) activity of computer programming into a highly valued, well-paying, and professionally respectable discipline. They did so by constructing for themselves a distinctively masculine identity in which individual artistic genius, personal eccentricity, anti-authoritarian behavior, and a characteristic \"dislike of activities involving human interaction\" were mobilized as sources of personal and professional authority. This article explores the history of masculine culture and practices in computer programming, with a particular focus on the role of university computer centers as key sites of cultural formation and dissemination.","23":"This essay focuses on \"hermaphrodites\" and the emerging profession of surgery in thirteenth- and fourteenth-century Europe. During this period, surgeons made novel claims about their authority to regulate sexual difference by surgically ''correcting\" errant sexual anatomies. Their theories about sex, I argue, drew upon both ancient roots and contemporary conflicts to conceptualize sexual difference in ways that influenced Western Europe for centuries thereafter. I argue that a close examination of medieval surgical texts complicates orthodox narratives in the broader history of sex and sexuality: medieval theorists approached sex in sophisticated and varied manners that belie any simple opposition of modern and premodern paradigms. In addition, because surgical treatments of hermaphrodites in the Middle Ages prefigure in many ways the treatment of atypical sex (a condition now called, controversially, intersex or disorders\/differences of sex development) in the modern world, I suggest that the writings of medieval surgeons have the potential to provide new perspectives on our current debates about surgery and sexual difference.","24":"This volume seeks to integrate gender analysis into the global history of science and medicine from the late Middle Ages to the present by focusing on masculinity, the part of the gender equation that has received the least attention from scholars. The premise of the volume is that social constructions of masculinity function simultaneously as foils for femininity and as methods of differentiating between \"kinds\" of men. In exploring scientific masculinities without taking the dominance of men and masculinity in the sciences for granted, we ask, What is masculinity and how does it operate in science? Our answers remind us that gender is at once an analytical category and a historical object. The essays are divided into three sections that in turn emphasize the importance of gender to the professionalization of scientific, technological, and medical practices, the spaces in which such labor is performed, and the ways that sex, gender, and sexual orientation are measured and serve as metaphors in society and culture.","25":"Reflecting on the upsurge of interest among historians of chemistry in the material, artisanal, and commercial aspects of early modern chemistry, this essay argues that they are attracting attention because of a number of similarities between the style of chemistry cultivated in this period and the new cultures of chemistry being developed today. The close interactions between knowing and making, academic knowledge and practical applications, the social value and prestige attached to chemistry, the public engagement in chemical culture, the concern with recycling, and even a specific relational ontology instantiated in the term \"rapport\" are characteristic features of the current technoscientific culture. However, these analogies between early modern chemistry and the technoscientific paradigm may turn into obstacles if they end up in hasty rapprochements and whiggish interpretations of the past. In keeping with the attempts displayed in many articles in this volume to identify and understand the meaning of the actors' categories, this essay emphasizes the contrast between the visions of the past and the future developed by eighteenth-century chemists and the concept of time that prevails nowadays. The concept of \"regime of historicity\" provides a useful conceptual tool to take a view of chemistry as embedded in a culture and integral part of the horizon of expectation of an epoch. On the basis of this contrast between the regimes of historicity, the essay recommends the pluralism of concepts of time (polychronism) as an antidote to anachronisms.","26":null,"27":"Eighteenth-century chemists defined chemistry as both a \"science and an art.\" By \"chemical art\" they meant not merely experimentation but also parts of certain arts and crafts. This raises the question of how to identify the \"chemical parts\" of the arts and crafts in eighteenth-century Europe. In this essay I tackle this question with respect to porcelain manufacture. My essay begins with a brief discussion of historiographical problems related to this question. It then analyzes practices involved in porcelain manufacture that can be reasonably identified as chemical practices or a chemical art. My analysis yields evidence for the argument that chemical experts and expertise fulfilled distinct technical functions in porcelain manufacture and, by extension, in eighteenth-century \"big industry,\" along with its system of division of labor.","28":"Despite recent studies of chemistry courses and of academic research at the beginning of the eighteenth century, the perception of chemistry in the French Enlightenment has often been overshadowed by Lavoisier's works. This article proposes three specific case studies selected from Pierre Joseph Macquer's (1718-84) rich career to show the continuous evolution of chemistry throughout the century: medicinal chemistry through the application of the Comte de La Garaye's metallic salt solutions, the emergence of industrial chemistry through a few of Macquer's evaluations at the Bureau du Commerce, and finally communal academic research through the experiments on diamonds using Tschirnhaus's lens. These examples attempt to illustrate the innovative, creative, dynamic, multicultural, and multifaceted chemistry of the Enlightenment.","29":"This essay examines how the modern concept of the chemical element emerged during the eighteenth century. It traces this concept to a group of assayers, mineralogists, and chemists active at the Swedish Bureau of Mines (Bergskollegium). Driven by a deep ontological pragmatism, these \"mining chemists\" came to regard all inquiries into the component parts of metals as useless speculation. Instead, metals were treated as immutable species that made mineralogical taxonomy possible. Their work was a form of Enlightenment boundary work, which associated chrysopoeia and the pursuit of the components of metals with superstition and disreputable activities such as astrology.","30":"In 1790, the Spanish Crown sent a \"botanist-chemist\" to South America to implement production of a chemical extract made from cinchona bark, a botanical medicament from the Andes used throughout the Atlantic World to treat malarial fevers. Even though the botanist-chemist's efforts to produce the extract failed, this episode offers important insight into the role of chemistry in the early modern Atlantic World. Well before the Spanish Crown tried to make it a tool of empire, chemistry provided a vital set of techniques that circulated among a variety of healers, who used such techniques to make botanical medicaments useful and intelligible in new ways.","31":null,"32":"In 1766, Thomas Cochrane entered the Edinburgh classroom of Joseph Black (1728-99) to learn chemistry for the first time. Cochrane was studying medicine, and, like so many of Black's students, he dutifully recorded several diagrams in his notebooks. These visualizations were not complex. They were, in fact, simple. One of them, reproduced in this essay, was a single \"X\" a chiasm. Black used it to illustrate ratios of chemical attraction. This diagram is particularly important for the history of chemistry because it is often held to be the first chemical formula, and, as such, historians have endeavored to explain why it was unique and how Black invented it. In this essay, I wish to turn the foregoing premise on its head by arguing that Black's chiasm was neither visually unique nor invented by him. I do this by approaching a number of his diagrams via a visual anthropology that allows me to examine how students learned to attach meaning to patterns that were already familiar to them. In the end, we will see that Black's diagrams were successful because their visual simplicity and familiarity made them ideally suited to represent the chemical theories that he so skillfully attached to them.","33":"This essay examines Herman Boerhaave's work with the instrument maker, Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit, on integrating the thermometer into the practice of eighteenth-century chemistry. Boerhaave utilized the thermometer to generate empirical evidence for the existence and actions of his instrument, \"fire,\" by incorporating the instrument into pedagogical demonstrations, chemical research on heat, and, finally, the performing of operations. I examine how the use of the thermometer altered the chemists' traditional approach to heat, based on skilled sense perception and experiential judgment, and suggest that the threat to traditional practice posed by the instrument explains some of the resistance to it among some chemists in the mid-eighteenth century.","34":"Histories of eighteenth-century chemistry often assert that the works of the German chemist Georg Ernst Stahl (1659-1734), especially his ideas about phlogiston, were largely unknown to French chemists until the 1740s. A careful analysis of Stahl's writings and the publications of the Royal Academy of Sciences in Paris shows that academy chemists were well informed about, and even integrated, Stahl's chemical theories, experiments, and methods beginning in the 1710s, and that Stahl kept abreast of the work by his colleagues at the Paris Academy. It also reveals the frequency and significance of the communication between French and German chemical communities in the first half of the eighteenth century.","35":null,"36":null,"37":"In the seventeenth century, there were developing norms of openness in the presentation of scientific knowledge that were at odds with traditions of secrecy among chymists, particularly practitioners of chrysopoeia, or the transmutation of metals. This chapter analyzes how Dr. Robert Plot, the first professor of chymistry at Oxford, negotiated these boundaries within an institutional context. I first delineate his chymical and experimental practice, which incorporated procedures from medieval alchemical sources, particularly the Lullian corpus, as well as more novel practices from seventeenth-century chymistry. Then, I analyze how personal and institutional ambitions and economic considerations shaped to what extent Plot negotiated the boundaries between secrecy and the public dissemination of chymical knowledge.","38":"In an influential article of 1952, Thomas Kuhn argued that Robert Boyle had little or no influence on the subsequent development of chemistry. This essay challenges Kuhn's view on two fronts. First, it shows that Johann Joachim Becher developed his hierarchical matter theory under the influence of Boyle and then transmitted it to the founder of the phlogiston theory, G. E. Stahl. Second, this essay argues that transmutational matter theories were not necessarily opposed to the existence of stable chemical species, pace Kuhn. Boyle's corpuscular theory descended largely from the tradition of \"chymical atomism,\" which often advocated both chrysopoeia and the reality of robust chemical substances.","39":"This chapter focuses upon the relation between textual and social practices that influenced the formation of a communal approach to acquiring chemical knowledge in the early seventeenth century. It also describes the utilitarian purpose of a humanist-inspired program of chemical learning that blended practices of textual\/linguistic expertise and artisanal know-how. Humanism, made pragmatic, sought to define the principles for \"making things well.\" In the design of Andreas Libavius (ca. 1555-1616), interpretive intuitions resulting from practiced reading of ancient and medieval texts combined with a knowledge of workshop language to build consensus about chymia's tools, procedures, and materials and to define its principia artificialia.","40":"The Sarepta, oder Bergpostill (1562) by Johann Mathesius is a book of sermons on mining and mineral subjects in which the composition and generation of metals in ore veins are discussed in terms of the sulfur-mercurius theory. Gur was an embodiment of mercurius or of sulfur and mercurius. Sulfur was evident in the sulfurous odor of the mines, in the supposed effects of subterranean heat, and in the deposition of mineral sulfur during the roasting of the ores. The toxic smoke given off during smelting was considered to be an additional manifestation of mercurius. Mathesius's sermons offer a glimpse of the ways miners' understanding of ores overlapped with alchemists' theories.","41":"An influential strand of English alchemy was the pursuit of the \"vegetable stone,\" a medicinal elixir popularized by George Ripley (d. ca. 1490), made from a metallic substance, \"sericon.\" Yet the identity of sericon was not fixed, undergoing radical reinterpretation between the fifteenth and seventeenth centuries as Ripley's lead-based practice was eclipsed by new methods, notably the antimonial approach of George Starkey (1628-65). Tracing \"sericonian\" alchemy over 250 years, I show how alchemists fed their practical findings back into textual accounts, creating a \"feedback loop\" in which the authority of past adepts was maintained by exegetical manipulations--a process that I term \"practical exegesis.\"","42":"","43":"Historical accounts of climate change science and policy have reflected rather infrequently upon the debates, discussions, and policy advice proffered by economists in the 1980s. While there are many forms of economic analysis, this article focuses upon cost-benefit analysis, especially as adopted in the work of William Nordhaus. The article addresses the way in which climate change economics subtly altered debates about climate policy from the late 1970s through the 1990s. These debates are often technical and complex, but the argument in this article is that the development of a philosophy of climate change as an issue for cost-benefit analysis has had consequences for how climate policy is made today.","44":"This article, by exploring the individual and collective trajectories that led to the \"nuclear winter\" debate, examines what originally drew scientists on both sides of the controversy to this research. Stepping back from the day-to-day action and looking at the larger cultural and political context of nuclear winter reveals sometimes surprising commonalities among actors who found themselves on opposing sides, as well as differences within the apparently coherent TTAPS group (the theory's originators: Richard P. Turco, Owen Brian Toon, Thomas P. Ackerman, James B. Pollack, and Carl Sagan). This story foreshadows that of recent research on anthropogenic climate change, which was substantially shaped during this--apparently tangential--cold war debate of the 1980s about research on the global effects of nuclear weapons.","45":"This article examines the relationship between climate change and politics in Antarctica since the International Geophysical Year of 1957-8, paying particular attention to the work of the British Antarctic Survey. Research conducted in Antarctica has played an important role in the understanding of climate change on a global scale. In turn, fears about the consequences of global climate change have radically changed perceptions of Antarctica and profoundly shaped scientific research agendas: a continent that until fifty years ago was perceived largely as an inhospitable wilderness has come to be seen as a dangerously vulnerable environment. This radical shift in perception contrasts with a fundamental continuity in the political power structures of the continent. This article argues that the severity of the threat of climate change has reinforced the privileged political position of the \"insider\" nations within the Antarctic Treaty System.","46":null,"47":"During the last three decades, popular discourses of climate have been replaced by a global and scientific metanarrative focusing on climate change and global warming. Recent climate scholarship has thus highlighted the need for a reexamination of the idea of climate and its culturally and spatially variable dimensions, though anxieties over the reemergence of climatic determinism in a number of high-profile publications have compounded a reluctance to engage in scholarship exploring the influence of climate on society. This article focuses on the work of British meteorologist and geographer Gordon Manley, whose publications, particularly those produced for popular audiences in the second half of the twentieth century, focus on the relationships between climate, place, and identity in postwar Britain. I argue that his approach may have renewed significance given recent efforts to reparticularize and reculture climate change discourses.","48":"This article examines how four major historical factors--geographical features, social conditions, medicine, and tourism--affected European and North American views of the tropical Caribbean climate from approximately 1750 to 1950. It focuses on the British West Indies, a region barely examined in the historiography of climate, and examines the views of physicians, residents, government officials, travelers, and missionaries. International perceptions of the tropical Caribbean climate shifted markedly over time, from the deadly, disease-ridden environment of colonial depictions in the eighteenth century to one of the world's most iconic climatic paradises, where tourists sought sun-drenched beaches and healing breezes, in the twentieth. This analysis of how environmental conditions, knowledge systems, social relations, politics, and economics shaped scientific and popular understandings of climate contributes to recent studies on the cultural construction of climate. The approach also offers important lessons for present-day discussions of climate change, which often depict climate too narrowly as simply temperature.","49":"This article discusses an anonymous letter published in the Philosophical Transactions in 1676 that reports the theories of American colonists about the cause of their warming climate (cultivation and deforestation), and offers Ireland's colonial experience as a counterexample: Ireland was a colony with decreased cultivation, but the same perceived warming. That such an objection seemed necessary to the author shows that anthropogenic climate change could be a subject of debate and that the concept of climate was tied into theories of land use and to the colonial enterprise. Since he was liminal to both the Royal Society of London and the intellectual circles of Dublin, his skepticism, contextualized here, questions both the elite discourse and the discourse at the colonial periphery.","50":"Long regarded for its reliable winter rainfall, the Southwest region of Western Australia was beset by unexpected dry conditions in the early 1970s whose persistence was baffling. The gradual growth of scientific interest in the region's rainfall, as this article contends, was strongly influenced by political, social, and economic concerns about the challenges posed by drought and climate change. The experience of rainfall decline coincided with international scientific and political interest in the global climate and the perception that it was deviating from its \"normal\" state. Indeed, this extended \"dry\" provided an Australian link to international concerns regarding anthropogenic global warming. This article argues that the historical, political, and economic importance of the Southwest's agricultural industries has led policy makers and researchers to perceive the region's changing climatic conditions as pathological and in need of diagnosis.","51":"In the decades between the world wars there were several attempts to document and explain perceived tendencies of atmospheric warming. Hans Ahlmann, a seminal figure in modern glaciology and a science policy adviser and diplomat, constructed a theory of \"polar warming\" using field results from glacier melting in the Arctic. This article aims to link the rise and fall of \"polar warming\" with Ahlmann's style of fieldwork. In Ahlmann's view, fieldwork should (1) enhance credibility of polar climate science by emulating laboratory methods and (2) secure knowledge in remote places through collaboration with local residents and fieldworkers. The bodily nature of this style of knowledge production turned out to be an asset in establishing Ahlmann's theory of polar warming but ultimately proved nonresilient to theories of anthropogenic climate change, which became influential from the 1950s onward.","52":null,"53":"The belief that human land use is capable of causing large-scale climatic change lies at the root of modern conservation thought and policy. The origins and popularization of this belief were deeply politicized. Alexander von Humboldt's treatment of the Lake Valencia basin in Venezuela and the desert coast of Peru as natural laboratories for observing the interaction between geophysical and cultural forces was central to this discovery, as was Humboldt's belief that European colonialism was especially destructive to the land. Humboldt's overt cultivation of disciples was critical to building the prestige of this discovery and popularizing the Humboldtian scientific program, which depended fundamentally on local observers, but willfully marginalized chorographic knowledge systems. In creating new, global forms of environmental understanding, Humboldtian science also generated new forms of ignorance.","54":"From 1784 to 1798, the military expert and natural philosopher Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford, worked in Munich for Elector Karl Theodor of Bavaria on a series of reforms that demanded a careful articulation of the reformer's expertise. This case study of Rumford's welfare reforms posits that the ambivalent nature of expertise, which relies simultaneously on generally accessible and on exclusive knowledge, was already present in the conceptual framework of Rumford's mechanical experimental philosophy and that this ambivalence was visible in the performative practice of the experimenter. Gestures of revelation and concealment and of displaying and obscuring were crucial to Rumford's (temporary) success in establishing his authority in Bavaria. Challenged by local advisers, the reformer called on a newly emergent form of public. Rumford's conceptual and practical articulation of expertise thus contributed to an increasing polarization of the political order in the Bavarian capital.","55":null,"56":"Medical practice and research in colonial India historically had been an imperial preserve, dominated by the elite members of the Indian Medical Service. This was contested from the 1900s on by the emerging Indian nationalism. This essay studies debates about the establishment of a medical research institution and how actors imposed the political identities of nationalism on British colonial practices of medical science. At the same time, Indian nationalism was also drawing from other emerging ideas around health and social welfare. The Indian nationalists and doctors sought to build the identities of the new nation and its medicine around their own ideas of its geography, people, and welfare.","57":"The antebellum years in the United States were marked by vigorous debates about national identity in which issues of hierarchy, authority, and democratic values came under intense scrutiny. During this period, a prime objective of indigenous authors writing for American children was educating the young so they would be ready to assume their republican responsibilities. The question of how depictions and discussions about nature and science were deployed toward this end is explored by examining key texts about nature and science from the era's two most prolific and popular children's authors--Samuel Griswold Goodrich (1793-1860) and Jacob Abbott (1803-79)--and highlighting assumptions within these works about what the proper relationship should be between the search for scientific knowledge and the larger polity.","58":"In nineteenth-century America, strength of materials, an engineering science, focused on empirical research that yielded practical tools about how to predict the behavior of a wide variety of materials engineers might encounter as they built the nation's infrastructure. This orientation toward \"cookbook formulae\" that could accommodate many different kinds of timber, stone, mortar, metals, and so on was specifically tailored for the American context, where engineers were peripatetic, materials diverse, and labor in short supply. But these methods also reflected deeper beliefs about the specialness of the landscape and the providential site of the American political experiment. As such, engineers' appreciation of natural bounty both emerged from and contributed to larger values about exceptionalism and the practical character of Americans.","59":"Revolutionary France's two Pacific expeditions, under the command of Jean-Antoine Bruny d'Entrecasteaux (1792-94) and Nicolas Baudin (1801-1804), demonstrate the importance of scientific inquiry to the newly sovereign nation. France's scientific community adapted to the changed circumstances of revolutionary upheaval by describing its work in terms of national priorities. Individuals on board the expeditions, both naval and scientific personnel, behaved as scientific citizens, intent on composing an encyclopedic body of knowledge about the Pacific. Disputes over whose science mattered more and how credit should be assigned through publication, however, broke down the consensus that science should be a national project.","60":"This essay argues that the idea of race had a profound, yet unacknowledged, impact on Elie Metchnikov's research on immunity. Making the phagocytes, the most primitive cells of the body, responsible for the organism's integrity, Metchnikov attempted to reconcile the cultural idea of primitivity as a threat with the notion of the body as capable of self-defense and self-organization. The vision of phagocytes as being both the agents of an organism's \"harmony\" and its potential enemies reflected the complications that the ideas of race and racial primitivity met in Russian intellectual contexts.","61":"The suppression of genetics in Soviet Russia was the big scandal of twentieth-century science. It was also a test case for the role of scientists in a liberal democracy. The intellectual's perennial dilemma between scientific truthfulness and political loyalty was sharpened by acute ideological conflicts. The central topic of this essay is how the conflict was played out in Soviet agricultural and biological science in the 1930s and 1940s. The account is focused on the role of the then current Soviet science policy and its basic epistemic principles, the \"unity of theory and practice\" and the \"practice criterion of truth\".","62":"This essay describes the growing number of women in science in Russia from 1860 to 1940, analyzing the development of a significant community in terms of three generations. These generations are defined by the removal of various obstacles to women's participation in the sciences. The decisive transitions took place with the creation of higher education for women in the 1870s and the establishment of formal gender equality by the Bolshevik regime after 1917. To develop a composite picture, many women's careers are examined.","63":"The grand \"Soviet experiment\" constituted an attempt to greatly accelerate and even shortcut the gradual course of historical development on the assumption of presumed knowledge of the general laws of history. This paper discusses the parts of that experiment that directly concerned scientific research and, in fact, anticipated or helped define important global changes in the functioning of science as a profession and an institution during the twentieth century. The phenomenon of Soviet, or socialist, science is analyzed here from the comparative international perspective, with attention to similarities and reciprocal influences, rather than to the contrasts and dichotomies that have traditionally interested cold war-type historiography. The problem is considered at several levels: philosophical (Soviet thought on the relationship between science and society and the social construction of scientific knowledge); institutional (the state recognition of research as a separate profession, the rise of big science and scientific research institutes); demographic (science becoming a mass profession, with ethnic and gender diversity among scientists); and political (Soviet-inspired influences on the practice of science in Europe and the United States through the social relations of science movement of the 1930s and the Sputnik shock of the 1950s).","64":"The article explores the Russian teachers' tortuous campaign at the beginning of the twentieth century to rise above the status of \"semiprofessionals\" by rooting the legitimacy of their professional expertise, training institutions, and working practices in the authority of \"science.\" This involved a radical reshaping of traditional pedagogy and its fusion with new, controversial approaches to child psychology. It also led to a proliferation of teacher-training courses and conferences devoted to \"pedagogical psychology,\" \"experimental pedagogy,\" and \"pedology.\" The article analyzes how the teachers' professional aspirations interacted with the conflicting agendas of rival groups of psychologists, who were themselves engaged in bitter squabbles over the legitimate identity of psychology as a scientific discipline.","65":"The success of the \"second importation\" of science to Russia during the Great Reforms of the 1860s is illustrated by examining the extended postdoctoral study of chemists in Heidelberg. While there, they adapted the Russian intelligentsia institution of the \"circle,\" or kruzhok, to cope with their alienation from the German culture they were confronting. Upon their return to Russia, they felt the lack of the communicative network they had established while abroad and reimported the kruzhok to serve as a central model for the formation of the Russian Chemical Society in 1868.","66":"The concept of \"intelligentsia\" has had a long life both as an actors' category and as a tool of historical analysis to understand the role of the educated elite in Russia and the Soviet Union. For a variety of reasons, this term has not achieved much prominence in exploring the assimilation of science and technology into Russian culture. This essay examines the term's convoluted historiography and makes a case for the utility of its revival--understanding \"intelligentsia\" not as a single concept or group but as a heterogeneous and evolving social institution. The entire volume is then introduced with these features in mind.","67":"This article is about the development of mental hygiene and mental health care in the Netherlands from the Second World War to the present, aiming to explore its relation to social and political modernization in general and the changing meanings of citizenship and civic virtue in particular. On the basis of three different ideals of individual self-development, my account is divided into three periods: 1945-1965 (guided self-development), 1965-1985 (spontaneous self-development), and 1985-2005 (autonomous self-development). In the conclusion, I will elaborate some more general characteristics of Dutch mental health care in its sociopolitical context.","68":"Using Ian Hacking's notion of \"making up people\", this paper argues that human chimeras--people who contain more than one genetically distinct cell population--have been made up. As with multiple personality, the discourse surrounding the phenomenon of chimerism offers a novel vantage point for examining the socio-political processes of subject formation. Evidence from archives, interviews with cell scientists, and popular sources will show that, in a strange leap that has come to seem self-evident, journalists, laypeople, and even scientists have come to equate genomes with selves and hence conclude that chimeras are more than one person. Thus far, the challenge that chimeras pose to the simple alignment of genome-body-person has been limited both by relegating chimeras to freak show status and by liberal institutions' demands that individuals be singular.","69":"How can psychological categories be understood as historical, political, and cultural artifacts? How are such categories maintained by individuals, organizations, and governments? How do macrosocietal changes-such as the transition from state socialism in East Germany in 1989-correlate with changes in the social and organizational structures that maintain psychological categories? This essay focuses on how--pre-1989--the category of neurosis (as a mental disorder) became entwined with East Germany's grand socialist project of creating new socialist personalities, a new society, and a new science and on how diagnostic preferences were adapted, modified, and extended by local cultural and institutional practices. It also examines how post-1989 the category of neurosis became redefined in accord with a formerly West German psychotherapeutic paradigm and was eventually obliterated by the bureaucratic health care system of the new Germany. East German practitioners adopted new therapeutic guidelines and a new language to make sense of the \"normal\", \"neurotic\", and \"pathological\" self in terms of \"individualizing forms of knowledge\" that tied in with efforts to remake East German citizens as liberal democratic subjects. At the same time, practitioners' clinical practice remained based upon face-to-face encounters in which formal guidelines and stipulations were often superseded by local, interactional, institutional, and cultural practices and contingencies.","70":"Illness in Nazi Germany was a site of contestation around the existing modem self. The Nazis mobilized the professions of medicine and psychology, two disciplines built around self, to exploit physical and mental capacity. Nazi projects thus instrumentalized the individual and essentialized a self of race and will. A cruel and anxious obsession with health as a means of racial exclusion was a monstrous form of the modern turn inward to agency of body and mind. The Nazis regulated the individual through family and factory (social control), areas of ordinary life in which modernity located human activity and meaning, and propagandized traditional values the populace internalized (social discipline). A Nazi premodern warrior ethos was served by a liberal ethic of productivity and an absolutist tradition of state control. Medicalization and commodification of health was continuous with modern trends and became a wartime site of attempted well-being of the self at the expense of the Nazi ethnic community.","71":"After World War II, the confidence of American psychiatrists was at an all-time high as a result of their successful participation in the war. When the incidence of mental breakdown in the American armed forces rose to unprecedented heights, new and effective psychotherapeutic methods were developed to treat the traumatic effects of the extraordinary stresses of warfare. At the same time, social scientists concluded that breakdown incidence was inversely related to morale, which led to the development of preventive measures aimed at specific groups. Both initiatives stimulated a number of psychiatrists to plan projects of social engineering after the war. They first focused on aiding the reintegration of returning veterans. Later, they addressed the poor mental health of the American population as a whole, which they considered to be the consequence of faulty child-rearing methods.","72":null,"73":"Despite the fact that much has been written in recent years about the science of heredity under the Third Reich, there is as yet no satisfying analysis of two central questions: What, if anything, was peculiarly \"Nazi\" about human genetics under National Socialism? How, under whatever set of causes, did at least some of Germany's most well-known and leading biomedical practioners become engaged in entgrenzte Wissenschaft (science without moral boundaries)? This paper attempts to provide some answers to these two questions comparing three institutes that studied eugenics and human heredity in the 1920s and 1930s: the Eugenics Record Office at Cold Spring Harbor, New York, directed by Charles B. Davenport; the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Anthropology, Human Heredity and Eugenics, in Berlin, directed by Eugen Fischer; and the Maxim Gorky Medical Genetics Institute in Moscow, directed by Solomon G. Levit. The institutes are compared on the basis of the kind and quality of their research in eugenics and medical genetics, organizational structure, leadership, patronage (private or state), and the economic-social-political context in which they functioned.","74":"The history of human experimentation in the twelve years between Hitler's rise to power and the end of the Second World War is notorious in the annals of the twentieth century. The horrific experiments conducted at Dachau, Auschwitz, Ravensbrueck, Birkenau, and other National Socialist concentration camps reflected an extreme indifference to human life and human suffering. Unfortunately, they do not reflect the extent and complexity of the human experiments undertaken in the years between 1933 and 1945. Following the prosecution of twenty-three high-ranking National Socialist physicians and medical administrators for war crimes and crimes against humanity in the Nuremberg Medical Trial (United States v. Karl Brandt et al.), scholars have rightly focused attention on the nightmarish researches conducted by a small group of investigators on concentration camp inmates. Less well known are alternative pathways that brought investigators to undertake human experimentation in other laboratories, settings, and nations.","75":"In our historical imagination, penicillin plays the role of the good sister of the atomic bomb. It epitomizes the success of the U.S. scientific mobilization and the emergence of modem biomedicine. This chapter discusses the fate of penicillin in France and Germany, comparing the reactions of the two countries to the antibiotic challenge under restricted conditions. The comparison centers on the scientific and industrial practices that created penicillin. It also sheds light on the professional styles, forms of expertise, and political resources that helped shape the meanings and uses of the antibiotic. The French section recounts how the Pasteur Institute and the military administration organized penicillin research and production during 1945-1947. The alliance between the two has roots in the highly peculiar political and social climate of the liberation and in the biotechnological tradition of the Pasteur Institute. The German section focuses on the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Biochemistry. The study of the institute, which worked closely with a pharmaceutical company, features the interplay between academic chemists and industry, while providing insights into the research organization under National Socialism.","76":"This paper examines the development of plant-breeding science in the context of the booming genetic research and autarky policy of the 1930s as well as during World War II in National Socialist-occupied Europe. Soviet scientists, especially Nikolai Vavilov and his VIR institute, had a leading position in the international plant-breeding science of the 1920s. During World War II, German scientists, namely experts from the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Plant Breeding, usurped Soviet institutes and valuable seed collections. In contrast, plant-breeding research in occupied Scandinavia continued with relatively little disturbance. The paper compares behavior of German, Soviet, and Norwegian plant-breeding scientists under the Nazi regime.","77":null,"78":"This article compares military research projects during the Second World War to develop nuclear weapons in Germany and Japan, two countries who lost the war and failed to create nuclear weapons. The performance and motivations of the scientists, as well as the institutional support given the work, is examined, explaining why, in each case, the project went as far as it did-but no further. The story is carried over into the postwar period, when the two cultures and their scientists had to deal with the buildup of nuclear weapons during the cold war and the new nuclear power industry.","79":"This chapter surveys wartime science mobilization within National Socialist Germany, Japan, and the Soviet Union to understand how each nation mobilized science resources for the war, how their approaches to mobilization differed, and how these approaches might be evaluated historically. Science mobilization in National Socialist Germany, in particular, has heretofore been characterized as a failure; however, such a view appears too simplistic and cannot account for the numerous advanced weapons and technological artifacts produced by the nation during the war. Both Germany and Japan operated under decentralized systems for science mobilization, whereas the Soviet Union imposed a highly-centralized authoritarian structure. These differed significantly from the organizational model of the United States, which has often been touted as the most \"successful\" of the belligerents. This essay attempts to evaluate the science mobilization efforts in these nations on their own terms, rather than comparing them directly with the American system.","80":"Prior studies of modern scientific internationalism have been written primarily from the point of view of scientists, with little regard to the influence of the state. This study examines the state's role in international scientific relations. States sometimes encouraged scientific internationalism; in the mid-twentieth century, they often sought to restrict it. The present study examines state involvement in international scientific congresses, the primary intersection between the national and international dimensions of scientists' activities. Here we examine three comparative instances in which such restrictions affected scientific internationalism: an attempt to bring an international aerodynamics congress to Nazi Germany in the late 1930s, unsuccessful efforts by Soviet geneticists to host the Seventh International Genetics Congress in Moscow in 1937, and efforts by U.S. scientists to host international meetings in 1950s cold war America. These case studies challenge the classical ideology of scientific internationalism, wherein participation by a nation in a scientist's fame spares the scientist conflict between advancing his science and advancing the interests of his nation. In the cases we consider, scientists found it difficult to simultaneously support scientific universalism and elitist practices. Interest in these congresses reached the top levels of the state, and access to patronage beyond state control helped determine their outcomes.","81":"During the intense political upheaval that dominated the middle decades of the twentieth century, modern states intensified their drives to discipline broad sectors of society and ensure their political reliability. Subjected to such pressures, scientific institutions faced the challenge of admitting new, officially mandated criteria into the regulation of scientific life. We examine the effects of these policies on the Kaiser Wilhelm Society in National Socialist Germany, the Max Planck Society in occupied Germany after 1945, the USSR Academy of Sciences throughout the Stalin era, and the National Academy of Sciences in early cold war America. In all these cases, while academic elites largely accepted the required radical changes in the rules for membership in the scientific community, they also sought to manipulate the process to their own institutional advantage.","82":"This essay describes the development of information technology and culture in the environmental field since the 1980s and how this has led to new understandings of risk communication. The essay also describes how environmental information systems operate as instruments of power, in the way they configure and provide access to knowledge, in the way they manage uncertainty, and in the way they build in and project particular modes of subjectivity. The goal is to provide a brief yet compelling glimpse into the \"informating of environmentalism.\"","83":"This paper locates the EPA national headquarters within the racialized local geography of southwest Washington, D.C. By focusing on the formation of a scientist union and the union's struggle to make visible an episode of chemical exposure in its own offices, the paper connects the work of racialized privilege with the difficulty of proving chemical exposures in the 1980s.","84":"In the transition out of socialism to market capitalism, bodies, populations, and categories of citizenship have been reordered. The rational-technical management of group affected by the Chernobyl disaster in Ukraine is a window into this contested process. Chernobyl exemplifies a moment when scientific knowability collapsed and new maps and categories of entitlement emerged. Older models of welfare rely on precise definitions situating citizens and their attributes on a cross-mesh of known categories upon which claims rights are based. Here one observes how ambiguities related to categorizing suffering created a political field in which a state, forms of citizenship, and informal economies were remade.","85":"This essay uses oral histories of dust disease in twentieth-century Scotland to illustrate the ways in which such history can illuminate how the working environment and work cultures affect workers' bodies and how workers come to terms with the ill-health caused by their employment. It emphasizes the agency of the interpreter but argues further that oral histories of dust disease in twentieth-century Scotland are simultaneously influenced by, and evidence for, material conditions. The essay explores the notion that the bodies, not just the voices of interviewees, are material testament to health-corroding work practices, cultures, and habitat. The focus is the problems caused by the inhalation of coal and asbestos dust.","86":"Many people believe that Rhodesia, struggling to maintain minority rule in Africa, used chemical and biological weapons against African guerilla armies in the liberation war. Clothes and food were routinely poisoned, and Rhodesian agents, perhaps in concert with global forces of reaction, caused the largest single outbreak of anthrax in modern times. Oral interviews with traditional healers and Rhodesians' confessional memoirs of the war suggest that deaths by poisoning or disease were not so straightforward, that guerillas and healers and doctors struggled to understand not only what caused death but also what kind of death a poisoned uniform or poisoned boot was.","87":"In the postwar period, modernist frameworks of the human body, which described the body as both cosmopolitan and separated from its environment, competed with ecological frameworks that constructed the body as inherently porous and tightly linked to the surrounding world. The history of pesticide-related illness among farmworkers, and the gradual recognition that pesticides posed a new kind of public health problem, illustrates how these competing understandings were adopted, mobilized, and applied by different groups, as well as how politics shaped the emergence of new medical facts. New forms of illness generated new knowledge about the modern landscape and made visible material links between bodies and their environments.","88":"An exercise in \"historical ontology,\" this paper charts the contrasting ways fluoridated water and its effects crystallized as objects of knowledge and concern in three quite different realms over the mid twentieth century. Among U.S. health officials and experts, fluoridated water emerged and stabilized as a public health goal, preventing tooth decay. Indian doctors and scientists defined it as a public health problem, causing \"skeletal fluorosis.\" Fluoridated water also acquired an intense presence among laypeople in the United States, especially those voting in local referenda on fluoridation. More often than not rejecting it, suspecting bias and myopia in profluoridation expertise, they cobbled together a lay ontology that proved predictive of the varied and changing flows of fluoridated water itself. The paper concludes by suggesting a principle of environmental symmetry as an aid to this kind of comparative ontology.","89":"In 1962, after high levels of the isotope Iodine-131 were detected in Utah milk supplies, Dr. Harold Knapp, a mathematician working for the AEC's Division of Biology and Medicine, developed a new model of estimating, first, the relation between a single deposition of radioactive fallout on pasturage and the levels of Iodine-131 in fresh milk and, second, the total dose to human thyroids, resulting from daily intake of the contaminated milk. The implications of Knapp's findings were enormous. They suggested that short-living radioiodine, rather than long-living nuclides such as radiostrontium, posed the greatest hazard from nuclear test fallout and that children raised in Nevada and Utah during the 1950s had been exposed to internal radiation doses far in excess of recommended guidelines. This paper explores the explicit historical revisionism of Knapp's study, his refusal, contra normal AEC practices of knowledge production and spatial representation, to distance himself from the people and places downwind from the Nevada Test Site, and the reactions his work provoked among his AEC colleagues.","90":"A neglected aspect of the history of germ theories is its use in the purification of sewage. In the 1890s, progressive reformers rapidly developed bacteriological methods of wastewater treatment. A comparison of the United Kingdom's Manchester and the United States' Chicago shows, however, that science and technology were mediated by political culture and institutions. In Manchester, a politics of deference and strong extralocal government gave the authority of scientific expertise a decisive role in policy formation. In Chicago, devolution of power to the ward bosses meant a quarter-century of defiance against the national authority and its effort to get the city to install a modern sanitation system.","91":"Before World War I, British and American public health officials correlated tuberculosis in dairy cattle with severe infections in milk-drinking children. They traced bacteria in municipal milk supplies, mapped the locations of infected animals, and sought regulatory power to destroy them. Consumers, milk producers, municipal officials, veterinarians, and physicians all influenced the shape of antituberculosis regulations. Many condemned pasteurization as too costly and as masking tubercular contamination and poor sanitation. They saw milk-borne tuberculosis as an environmental as well as a bacteriological problem. Similar to other zoonotic diseases such as BSE, bovine tuberculosis blurred the boundaries between urban and rural, production and consumption, and human and animal bodies.","92":"This article examine the transnational networking practices fo Teresa Leal, an environmental justice activist living and working on the U.S.-Mexico border. It shows, through the method of engaged ethnography, how she and other community activists respond to the effects of global economic restructuring policies such as NAFTA. Grounded in an ecological epistemology, Lead blends \"local\" and \"scientific\" knowledges about the deteriorating health, economic, and environmental conditions at the border and constructs a \"global sense of place\" that brings into focus the everyday realities of neoliberal globalization. The article documents a daylong \"toxic tour\" of the Ambos Nogales region and highlights the multiple border crossings (epistemic, geographic, political, cultural) undertaken by Leal, other activists, and the author, a visitor to the region, to narrate a history of community health and environmental action in a transnational context.","93":"Across the western landscape of the United States, health was a natural resource, mined and sold by late-nineteenth and twentieth-century town boosters and physicians to those afflicted with chronic pulmonary illnesses such as tuberculosis and asthma. Regional economies of health were built upon climate and sunshine. After the Second World War, children, rather than nature, increasingly became a vital resource upon which institutions such as Denver's Jewish National Home for Asthmatic Children expanded the economic networks through which capital and drugs flowed. Despite these changes, the material traces of past landscapes lingered and resurfaced in the reconfigured places where hope dwelled.","94":"Correspondence surrounding the death from consumption of a New England woman on the Santa Fe Trail in 1857 demonstrates how gender roles and economic network influenced health travel and the search for healthy places in the nineteenth century United States. Women did travel seeking healing or relief from sickness - sometimes, as here, in arduous, overland trips - but in ways subtly different from male health seekers: family attachments, as well as their own health concerns, impelled and justified women in their decisions to take journeys. Yet for women as for men, decisions about health travel were also bound up with the economic considerations that shaped their families' lives.","95":"The concept of scale politics offers historians a useful framework for analyzing the connections between environment and health. This essay examines the public health campaign around emerging diseases during the 1990s, particularly the ways in which different actors employed scale in geographic and political representations; how they configured cause, consequence, and intervention at different scales; and the moments at which they shifted between different scales in the presentation of their arguments. Biomedical scientists, the mass media, and public health and national security experts contributed to this campaign, exploiting Americans' ambivalence about globalization and the role of modernity in the production of new risks, framing them in terms that made particular interventions appear necessary, logical, or practical.","96":null,"97":"Tropical Africa was one of the last regions of the world to experience formal European colonialism, a process that coincided with the advent of a range of new scientific specialties and research methods. The history of British attempts to understand and control African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness in humans and nagana in cattle), following the intense human epidemics that broke out between 1895 and 1910, reveals hitherto ignored scientific research in the fields of ecology, epidemiology, and tropical medicine that helped produce a new understanding of the \"ecology of disease.\" Often generated within a transnational and inter-disciplinary context, this knowledge increasingly assumed that vector-borne diseases in tropical environments were highly complex, dynamic, and interrelated phenomena. Thus while many people continued to hope that trypanosomiasis could be eradicated, research results made this prospect seem unlikely, if not impossible.","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":"In recent decades, the flora and fuana of cities have become the objects of the inter-disciplinary research field of urban ecology and related policies of urban nature conservation. Although the term \"urban ecology\" is quite recent, it is argued in this paper that the formation of urban nature as an object of ecological knowledge has a much longer history. For example, in Germany, after World War II, the large rubble areas that existed in all bombed cities soon became important research fields for botanists studying plant migration and vegetation development in the context of the city. This paper uses the case of these botanical research activities to shed light on the historical origins of ecological thinking about nature in the city. Drawing upon a socio-spatial approach to science and practice, the paper explores the interaction between the social and material order of the city and the formation of ecological knowledge. As will be shown, botanists studying the rubble areas created various representations (e.g., lists, statistical tabulations, maps) of urban space that contributed to the transformation of the cultural and political meaning of urban wastelands. At the same time, it will be argued, urban wastelands were practically appropriated as scientific workplaces in which these representations were locally crafted. What later became the science and politics of urban ecology is to a large extent the outcome of this mutual shaping of knowledge and urban space in the post-Second World War period.","102":"American sociologists and psychiatrists have often characterized cities as sites of social disintegration conducive to insanity. Small-town rural life, by contrast, has been presented as ideally suited for fostering mental health. Early research in psychiatric epidemiology confirmed these views. After World War II, psychiatrists and sociologists collaborated in influential research projects on mental illness in the community. Although these studies were guided by theories of social stratification, which ignores location, cities remained problematic for psychiatrists because they contained high concentrations of poverty and social problems and, consequently, mental health problems.","103":"Science and technology have played a crucial role in regulating problems resulting from urban overcrowding. In the twentieth century, the decibel became a major factor in controlling, for instance, urban traffic noise in the Netherlands. \"The city of din\" led to the creation of the portable noise meter to measure decibels, but the urban context also set limits on its utility in noise conflicts between neighbors. Regarding neighborly noise, the trust in numbers failed to be productive. Legislation,based on objective noise levels, aimed at regulating disturbance from neighbors was not realized in any comprehensive manner, due to changing class relations and the increasing recognition of both the subjectivity of noise and the right to make noise in the privacy of one's own home.","104":"This is an essay in the history of observation of the natural and social worlds. It explores how nineteenth-century Paris became a field and object of scientific observation and how the everyday lives, and even the health, of scientists living in the city and leaving the city for the \"country\" modeled observations and theoretical interpretation. The story concerns the first important work in the research school of Louis Pasteur to focus on a human and urban disease, diphtheria, rather than animal and rural ones. An urban field practice emerged from characteristically Parisian forms and literary fictions of street life and public space, leisure, spectacle, and crowds. Some of these, such as transcience, were (and still are) viewed as not only characteristic of \"modern life,\" but also the source of new practices and sensibilities in painting and literature. Microbiological studies elsewhere --such as in New York and Hamburg--were based on very different urban structures, patterns of everyday life, national cultures, and aspects of modernity.","105":"This article brings together what until now have been separate fields of nineteenth-century history: the development of experimental physiology, the growth of mechanized industry, and the city, where their threads intertwined. The main argument is that the laboratory in the city employed the same technological and organizational approaches to modernize that the city used to industrialize. To bring the adoption of technology into focus, the article discusses laboratory research as it developed after the introduction of small-scale power engines. With its machines, the industrialized city provided not only the key metaphor of the nineteenth-century life sciences but also a key technology that shifted experimental practices in animal research from a kind of preindustrial craft to a more mechanized production of knowledge. With its \"factory-laboratories,\" the late-nineteenth-century city became the birthplace for the first living, data-producing hybird---part animal and part machine.","106":"This article argues that the city of Paris played a unique role in shaping clinical medicine at the Paris hospital at the turn of the nineteenth century. Under outstanding clinicians such as Corvisart, Pinel, Bichat, Desault, Alibert, Bayle, and Laennec, who headed the \"Paris School,\" teaching and research became hospital-based. New methods such as percussion, mediate auscultation, and psychological evaluation were introduced, and autopsies became routine. Chaptal, a physcian and minister of internal affairs under the Consulate, played a key role by creating the Paris Hospital and Health Councils, the Central Pharmacy, and central triage for hospital admissions. These municipal councils supervised the practice and teaching of anatomo-clinical medicine and the concomitant social changes involved in the delivery of health care to a city of six hundred thousand inhabitants. These changes included the orderly provision of bodies for dissection, the subordination of nurses to physicians, the teaching of preclinical courses, and the adaptation of the confiscated religious buildings to house patients grouped according to their diseases. The new arrangements fostered the rise of medical specialties, including public health, practiced by hygienists who turned Paris itself into a patient.","107":"The modern history of science is commonly associated with an inexorable move toward increasing specialization and, perhaps, a proliferation of expert discourses at the expense of public discourse. This paper concerns the standing of science as a basis for public authority in late-Victorian and Edwardian Britain, and suggests that, in relation to the political order, this standing remained tenuous. These themes are exemplified by the career of Karl Pearson, founder of the modern school of mathematical statistics and something of a social visionary. Like Huxley and other scientific naturalists, Pearson wished to incorporate science into a reinvigorated \"general culture\" and in this way to reshape an elite. Statistics, seemingly the archetypal form of specialist expertise, was conceived as an almost utopian program to advance intelligence and mortality in what he sometimes referred to as a new aristocracy.","108":"Despite the rhetoric of decolonization following World War II, developing countries are, if anything, more dependent now on the science and technology of the developed world than they were in colonial times. This has led some critics to describe their situation as \"neo-colonial.\" This paper will explore the issue in relation to the biotechnology industry, and to the 1993 United Nations Convention on Biodiversity. This convention challenged the assumption that the earth's biological and genetic resources are part of the \"global commons\" by giving property rights over these resources to the nation-states. While the objective of encouraging states to conserve biodiversity is universally endorsed, the strategy of using property law to do so is not. The search for new genetic and biological resources has become a major priority for the agrichemical and pharmaceutical industries, and despite continuation of the colonial tradition of appropriating indigenous knowledge and resources, new and more equitable models are being explored and developed within the convention's framework. These strategies, while controversial, offer the hope of a new and more just \"International Genetic Order.\"","109":"The history of medicine in twentieth-century empires has been dominated by studies of \"imperial tropical medicine\" (ITM) and its consequences. Historians have been fascinated by the work of medical scientists and doctors in the age of high imperialism, and there are many studies of medicine as a \"tool of empire.\" This paper reviews work that explores colonial medicine as a broader enterprise than ITM in three spheres: missionary activity, modernization, and protection of the health and welfare of indigenous peoples. To illustrate the themes of mission and mandate, it discusses the development of policies to control leprosy in the tropical African and Asian colonies of Britain in the first half of this century, especially the work of the British Empire Leprosy Relief Association (BELRA). Although BELRA's efforts did little to change imperial medical and health agendas, they had an important impact locally and ideologically, and show how closely interwoven the themes of Christian caring, medical humanism, colonial development, and welfare policy had become by the outbreak of the Second World War.","110":"Racism has been a particular focus of the history of Western medicine in colonial South Africa. Much of the research to date has paradoxically interpreted Western medicine as both a handmaiden of colonialism and as a racist gatekeeper to the benefits of Western medical science. This essay suggests that while these conclusions have some validity, the framework in which they have been devised is problematic. Not only is that framework contradictory in nature, it underplays differences within Western medicine, privileges the history of explicit and intentional racial discrimination in medicine, and encourages a separate analysis of racism in law, in the medical profession, and in medical theory and practice. Using the example of the Cape Colony in South Africa, this paper shows how legislation, class, institutional setting, and popular stereotypes could influence the form, timing, and degree of racism in the medical professional, and in medical theory and practice. It also argues for an analytical distinction between 'racist medicine' and 'medical racism.'","111":"This paper examines the institutions, personages, and the theories that informed acclimatization activities in nineteenth-century France, England, and the two colonies of Algeria and Australia. Treating acclimatization as a scientific concept and activity the essay begins with the conditions of its emergence in Enlightenment France. Subsequent sections trace the growth of the acclimatization movement and its translation to the British context, and consider reasons for its decline in the last third of the nineteenth century. Efforts are made to show why many perceived acclimatization to be the paradigmatic colonial science with applications as diverse as agriculture, settlement schemes, field sports, and human health. Emphasis falls on the French and British cultural spheres, as these were the dual epicenters of both modern colonialism and organized acclimatization activity.","112":"","113":"","114":"","115":"","116":"","117":"","118":"","119":"","120":"","121":"","122":"","123":"","124":"","125":"","126":"","127":"","128":"","129":"","130":"","131":"","132":"","133":"","134":"","135":"","136":"","137":"","138":"","139":"","140":"","141":"","142":"","143":"","144":"","145":"","146":"","147":"","148":"","149":"","150":"","151":"","152":"","153":"","154":"","155":"","156":"","157":"","158":"","159":"","160":"","161":"","162":"","163":"","164":"","165":"","166":"","167":"","168":"","169":"","170":"","171":"","172":"","173":"","174":""},"articletitle":{"0":"Legalities of Healing: Handling Alterities at the Edge of Medicine in France, 1980s-2010s.","1":null,"2":null,"3":null,"4":null,"5":"Affected Doctors: Dead Bodies and Affective and Professional Cultures in Early Modern European Anatomy.","6":"Mother Love and Mental Illness: An Emotional History.","7":"The Feeling Body and Its Diseases: How Cancer Went Psychosomatic in Twentieth-Century German.","8":"A Moving Soul: Emotions in Late Medieval Medicine.","9":"Medieval Sciences of Emotions during the Eleventh to Thirteenth Centuries: An Intellectual History.","10":"An Introduction to History of Science and the Emotions.","11":"The Intimate Geographies of Panic Disorder: Parsing Anxiety through Psychopharmacological Dissection.","12":"Sexual Violence, Predatory Masculinity, and Medical Testimony in New Spain.","13":"Maintaining Masculinity in Mid-Twentieth-Century American Psychology: Edwin Boring, Scientific Eminence, and the \"Woman Problem\".","14":"Half a Man: The Symbolism and Science of Paraplegic Impotence in World War II America.","15":"Detecting and Teaching Desire: Phallometry, Freund, and Behaviorist Sexology.","16":null,"17":"Mountaineering, Masculinity, and the Male Body in Mid-Victorian Britain.","18":"Recipes for Men: Manufacturing Makeup and the Politics of Production in 1910s China.","19":"Prosthetic Manhood in the Soviet Union at the End of World War II.","20":"Manliness and Exploration: The Discovery of the North Pole.","21":"Men in Groups: Anthropology and Aggression, 1965-84.","22":"\"Beards, Sandals, and Other Signs of Rugged Individualism\": Masculine Culture within the Computing Professions.","23":"Erecting Sex: Hermaphrodites and the Medieval Science of Surgery.","24":"An Introduction to Scientific Masculinities.","25":"Concluding Remarks: A View of the Past through the Lens of the Present.","26":"Pharmacy and Chemistry in the Eighteenth Century: What Lessons for the History of Science?","27":"Chemical Expertise: Chemistry in the Royal Prussian Porcelain Manufactory.","28":"Pierre-Joseph Macquer: Chemistry in the French Enlightenment.","29":"Elements in the Melting Pot: Merging Chemistry, Assaying, and Natural History, Ca. 1730-60.","30":"An Empire's Extract: Chemical Manipulations of Cinchona Bark in the Eighteenth-Century Spanish Atlantic World.","31":"Between the Workshop and the Laboratory: Lavoisier's Network of Instrument Makers.","32":"How to See a Diagram: A Visual Anthropology of Chemical Affinity.","33":"Measuring Fire: Herman Boerhaave and the Introduction of Thermometry into Chemistry.","34":"Communications of Chemical Knowledge: Georg Ernst Stahl and the Chemists at the French Academy of Sciences in the First Half of the Eighteenth Century.","35":null,"36":null,"37":"The Chymistry of \"The Learned Dr Plot\" (1640-96).","38":"Robert Boyle, Transmutation, and the History of Chemistry before Lavoisier: A Response to Kuhn.","39":"Eloquence in the Marketplace: Erudition and Pragmatic Humanism in the Restoration of Chymia.","40":null,"41":"Transmuting Sericon: Alchemy as \"Practical Exegesis\" in Early Modern England.","42":"An Introduction to Chemical Knowledge in the Early Modern World.","43":"Optimal climate change: economics and climate science policy histories (from heuristic to normative).","44":"The politics of atmospheric sciences: \"nuclear winter\" and global climate change.","45":"Melting empires? Climate change and politics in Antarctica since the International Geophysical Year.","46":"Concentrating on CO2: the Scandinavian and Arctic measurements.","47":"Reculturing and particularizing climate discourses: weather, identity, and the work of Gordon Manley.","48":"Inventing Caribbean climates: how science, medicine, and tourism changed tropical weather from deadly to healthy.","49":"The letter from Dublin: climate change, colonialism, and the Royal Society in the seventeenth century.","50":"Diagnosing the dry: historical case notes from Southwest Western Australia, 1945-2007.","51":"The anxieties of a science diplomat: field coproduction of climate knowledge and the rise and fall of Hans Ahlmann's polar warming\".","52":"Imperial climatographies from Tyrol to Turkestan.","53":"Humboldtian science, Creole meteorology, and the discovery of human-caused climate change in South America.","54":"Political order and the ambivalence of expertise: Count Rumford and welfare reform in late eighteenth-century Munich.","55":null,"56":"\"Signs of the times\": Medicine and nationhood in British India.","57":"The children's republic of science in the antebellum literature of Samuel Griswold Goodrich and Jacob Abbott.","58":"Material experiments: Environment and engineering institutions in the early American republic.","59":"Projections of the revolutionary nation: French expeditions in the Pacific, 1791-1803.","60":"Taming the primitive: Elie Metchnikov and his discovery of immune cells.","61":"Wishful science: the persistence of T. D. Lysenko's agrobiology in the politics of science.","62":"The conquest of science: women and science in Russia, 1860-1940.","63":"The phenomenon of Soviet science.","64":"Turning pedagogy into a science: teachers and psychologists in late imperial Russia (1897-1917).","65":"The Heidelberg circle: German inflections on the professionalization of Russian chemistry in the 1860s.","66":"Introduction: Intelligentsia science inside and outside Russia.","67":"Self-development and civic virtue: mental health and citizenship in The Netherlands (1945-2005).","68":"The chimera of liberal individualism: how cells became selves in human clinical genetics.","69":"Cultures of categories: Psychological diagnoses as institutional and political projects before and after the transition from state socialism in 1989 in East Germany.","70":"Sick heil: self and illness in Nazi Germany.","71":"War neurosis, adjustment problems in veterans, and an ill nation: The disciplinary project of American psychiatry during and after World War II.","72":"Psychiatric genetics in Munich and Basel between 1925 and 1945: programs-practices-cooperative arrangements.","73":"Human heredity and politics: A comparative institutional study of the Eugenics Record Office at Cold Spring Harbor (United States), the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Anthropology, Human Heredity, and Eugenics (Germany), and the Maxim Gorky Medical Genetics Institute (USSR).","74":"Pathways to human experimentation, 1933-1945: Germany, Japan, and the United States.","75":"Molding national research systems: the introduction of penicillin to Germany and France.","76":"Plant breeding on the front: imperialism, war, and exploitation.","77":"Aerodynamics and mathematics in National Socialist Germany and Fascist Italy: a comparison of research institutes.","78":"Wartime nuclear weapons research in Germany and Japan.","79":"Laying the foundation for wartime research: a comparative overview of science mobilization in National Socialist Germany, Japan, and the Soviet Union.","80":"National states and international science: A comparative history of international science congresses in Hitler's Germany, Stalin's Russia, and cold war United States.","81":"Purges in comparative perspective: Rules for exclusion and inclusion in the scientific community under political pressure.","82":"From Bhopal to the informating of environmentalism: risk communication in historical perspective.","83":"Uncertain exposures and the privilege of imperception: activist scientists and race at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.","84":"Biological citizenship: the science and politics of Chernobyl-exposed populations.","85":"Oral history, subjectivity, and environmental reality: occupational health histories in twentieth-century Scotland.","86":"Poisoned food, poisoned uniforms, and anthrax: or, how guerillas die in war.","87":"The fruits of ill-health: Pesticides and workers' bodies in post-World War II California.","88":"The artificial nature of fluoridated water: between nations, knowledge, and material flows.","89":"Harold Knapp and the geography of normal controversy: radioiodine in the historical environment.","90":"\"Clever Microbes\": bacteriology and sanitary technology in Manchester and Chicago during the progressive age.","91":"Mapping a zoonotic disease: Anglo-American efforts to control bovine tuberculosis before World War I.","92":"\"Living is for everyone\": border crossings for community, environment, and health.","93":"Geographies of hope: mining the frontiers of health in Denver and beyond, 1870-1965.","94":"Gender and the economy of health on the Santa Fe Trail.","95":"The scale politics of emerging diseases.","96":"Natural histories of infectious disease: ecological vision in twentieth-century biomedical science.","97":"Ecologies of complexity: Tropical environments, African trypanosomiasis, and the science of disease control in British colonial Africa, 1900-1940.","98":"Introduction: A cloud over history.","99":"The psychology of the emotions in Britain and America in the nineteenth century: the role of religious and antireligious commitments.","100":"Science in theistic contexts. A case of Alfred Russel Wallace on human evolution.","101":"Exploring the city of Rubble: botanical fieldwork in bombed cities in Germany after World War II.","102":"Anomie in the metropolis: the city of American sociology and psychiatry.","103":"\"The City of Din\": decibels, noise, and neighbors in The Netherlands, 1910-1980.","104":"The microscopist of modern life.","105":"Engines for experiment: laboratory revolution and industrial labor in the nineteenth-century city.","106":"The city of Paris and the rise of clinical medicine.","107":"Statistical utopianism in the age of aristocratic efficiency.","108":"Bio-prospecting or bio-piracy: intellectual property rights and biodiversity in a colonial and postcolonial context.","109":"The colonial world as mission and mandate: leprosy and empire, 1900-1940.","110":"Racism and medical science in South Africa's Cape Colony in the mid- to late nineteenth century.","111":"Acclimatizing the world: a history of the paradigmatic colonial science.","112":"Claude Bernard and Louis Pasteur: contrasting images through public commemorations.","113":"The First American and French commemorations in molecular biology: from collective memory to comparative history.","114":"Medicine and the culture of commemoration: representing Robert Koch's discovery of the tubercle bacillus.","115":"Changing practices of commemoration in neurology: comparing Charcot's 1925 and 1993 centennials.","116":"Religious belief and the content of the sciences.","117":"Religious beliefs, metaphysical beliefs, and historiography of science.","118":"Deadly disputes: hybrid selves and the calculation of death in Japan and North America.","119":"The repatriation of atomic bomb victim body parts to Japan: natural objects and diplomacy.","120":"Debating racial science in wartime Japan.","121":"Medicine, food, and poison in traditional Thai healing.","122":"Colonial medical police and postcolonial medical surveillance systems in Taiwan, 1895-1950s.","123":"New geographies of Chinese medicine.","124":"Medicine and science as masculine \"fields of honor\".","125":"The women, gender, and science question: What do research on women in science and research on gender and science have to do with each other?","126":"Gender and \"modern\" botany in Victorian England.","127":"Developmental biology as a feminist cause?","128":"Hidden persuaders: medical indexing and the gendered professionalism of American medicine, 1880-1932.","129":"The experimental life sciences in the twentieth century.","130":"The history of science and the sciences of medicine.","131":"Instruments, nerve action, and the all-or-none principle.","132":"Helmholtz and the materialities of communication.","133":"Introduction: instruments in the history of science.","134":"Vision studies in Germany: Helmholtz versus Hering.","135":"Group research in German chemistry: Kolbe's Marburg and Leipzig institutes.","136":"National styles? French and English chemistry in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.","137":"Research schools and their histories.","138":"Research schools and new directions in the historiography of science.","139":"Tacit knowledge and school formation.","140":"The Comstock research school in evolutionary entomology.","141":"W. H. Perkin, Jr., at Manchester and Oxford: from Irwell to Isis.","142":"Plants as intellectual property:  American practice, law, and policy in world context.","143":"Big science in the last years of the big Soviet Union.","144":"Big science: Price to the present.","145":"Documenting recent science: progress and needs.","146":"Science, universities, and national defense, 1945-1970.","147":"Setting federal salaries in the space age.","148":"Science, politics, and the renegotiation of expertise at EPA.","149":"The politics of macromolecules: molecular biologists, biochemists, and rhetoric.","150":"Renaissance medical learning: evolution of a tradition.","151":"Jewish appreciation of fourteenth-century scholastic medicine.","152":"The nature and limits of medical certitude at early fourteenth-century Montpellier.","153":"The construction of a philosophical medicine: exegesis and argument in Salernitan teaching on the soul.","154":"The reception of Fracastoro's Theory of contagion: the seed that fell among thorns?","155":"Girolamo Mercuriale's De modo studendi.","156":"Giovanni Argenterio and sixteenth-century medical innovation: between princely patronage and academic controversy.","157":"The medical meaning of physica.","158":"Theory, everyday practice, and three fifteenth-century physicians.","159":"History, novelty, and progress in scholastic medicine.","160":"The rise and decline of the Bonn natural sciences seminar.","161":"University reform in medical thought at the end of the eighteenth century.","162":"Science in Germany.","163":"German eugenics between science and politics.","164":"Kant, Schelling, and the administration of science in the Romantic era.","165":"The complementarity of teaching and research in Liebig's laboratory.","166":"The race hygiene movement in Germany.","167":"Walter B. Cannon, L. J. Henderson, and the organic analogy.","168":"Science, foundations, and American universities in the 1920s.","169":"Recombinant DNA technology and its social transformation, 1972-1982.","170":"The eugenics record office at Cold Spring Harbor, 1910-1940: an essay in institutional history.","171":"Science in medicine.","172":"History of the social sciences.","173":"History of biology.","174":"Historical writing on American science."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":"","84":"","85":"","86":"","87":"","88":"","89":"","90":"","91":"","92":"","93":"","94":"","95":"","96":"","97":"","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":"","102":"","103":"","104":"","105":"","106":"","107":"","108":"","109":"","110":"","111":"","112":"","113":"","114":"","115":"","116":"","117":"","118":"","119":"","120":"","121":"","122":"","123":"","124":"","125":"","126":"","127":"","128":"","129":"","130":"","131":"","132":"","133":"","134":"","135":"","136":"","137":"","138":"","139":"","140":"","141":"","142":"","143":"","144":"","145":"","146":"","147":"","148":"","149":"","150":"","151":"","152":"","153":"","154":"","155":"","156":"","157":"","158":"","159":"","160":"","161":"","162":"","163":"","164":"","165":"","166":"","167":"","168":"","169":"","170":"","171":"","172":"","173":"","174":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Osiris","1":"Osiris","2":"Osiris","3":"Osiris","4":"Osiris","5":"Osiris","6":"Osiris","7":"Osiris","8":"Osiris","9":"Osiris","10":"Osiris","11":"Osiris","12":"Osiris","13":"Osiris","14":"Osiris","15":"Osiris","16":"Osiris","17":"Osiris","18":"Osiris","19":"Osiris","20":"Osiris","21":"Osiris","22":"Osiris","23":"Osiris","24":"Osiris","25":"Osiris","26":"Osiris","27":"Osiris","28":"Osiris","29":"Osiris","30":"Osiris","31":"Osiris","32":"Osiris","33":"Osiris","34":"Osiris","35":"Osiris","36":"Osiris","37":"Osiris","38":"Osiris","39":"Osiris","40":"Osiris","41":"Osiris","42":"Osiris","43":"Osiris","44":"Osiris","45":"Osiris","46":"Osiris","47":"Osiris","48":"Osiris","49":"Osiris","50":"Osiris","51":"Osiris","52":"Osiris","53":"Osiris","54":"Osiris","55":"Osiris","56":"Osiris","57":"Osiris","58":"Osiris","59":"Osiris","60":"Osiris","61":"Osiris","62":"Osiris","63":"Osiris","64":"Osiris","65":"Osiris","66":"Osiris","67":"Osiris","68":"Osiris","69":"Osiris","70":"Osiris","71":"Osiris","72":"Osiris","73":"Osiris","74":"Osiris","75":"Osiris","76":"Osiris","77":"Osiris","78":"Osiris","79":"Osiris","80":"Osiris","81":"Osiris","82":"Osiris","83":"Osiris","84":"Osiris","85":"Osiris","86":"Osiris","87":"Osiris","88":"Osiris","89":"Osiris","90":"Osiris","91":"Osiris","92":"Osiris","93":"Osiris","94":"Osiris","95":"Osiris","96":"Osiris","97":"Osiris","98":"Osiris","99":"Osiris","100":"Osiris","101":"Osiris","102":"Osiris","103":"Osiris","104":"Osiris","105":"Osiris","106":"Osiris","107":"Osiris","108":"Osiris","109":"Osiris","110":"Osiris","111":"Osiris","112":"Osiris","113":"Osiris","114":"Osiris","115":"Osiris","116":"Osiris","117":"Osiris","118":"Osiris","119":"Osiris","120":"Osiris","121":"Osiris","122":"Osiris","123":"Osiris","124":"Osiris","125":"Osiris","126":"Osiris","127":"Osiris","128":"Osiris","129":"Osiris","130":"Osiris","131":"Osiris","132":"Osiris","133":"Osiris","134":"Osiris","135":"Osiris","136":"Osiris","137":"Osiris","138":"Osiris","139":"Osiris","140":"Osiris","141":"Osiris","142":"Osiris","143":"Osiris","144":"Osiris","145":"Osiris","146":"Osiris","147":"Osiris","148":"Osiris","149":"Osiris","150":"Osiris","151":"Osiris","152":"Osiris","153":"Osiris","154":"Osiris","155":"Osiris","156":"Osiris","157":"Osiris","158":"Osiris","159":"Osiris","160":"Osiris","161":"Osiris","162":"Osiris","163":"Osiris","164":"Osiris","165":"Osiris","166":"Osiris","167":"Osiris","168":"Osiris","169":"Osiris","170":"Osiris","171":"Osiris","172":"Osiris","173":"Osiris","174":"Osiris"},"keyword":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":"","55":"","56":"","57":"","58":"","59":"","60":"","61":"","62":"","63":"","64":"","65":"","66":"","67":"","68":"","69":"","70":"","71":"","72":"","73":"","74":"","75":"","76":"","77":"","78":"","79":"","80":"","81":"","82":"","83":"","84":"","85":"","86":"","87":"","88":"","89":"","90":"","91":"","92":"","93":"","94":"","95":"","96":"","97":"","98":"","99":"","100":"","101":"","102":"","103":"","104":"","105":"","106":"","107":"","108":"","109":"","110":"","111":"","112":"","113":"","114":"","115":"","116":"","117":"","118":"","119":"","120":"","121":"","122":"","123":"","124":"","125":"","126":"","127":"","128":"","129":"","130":"","131":"","132":"","133":"","134":"","135":"","136":"","137":"","138":"","139":"","140":"","141":"","142":"","143":"","144":"","145":"","146":"","147":"","148":"","149":"","150":"","151":"","152":"","153":"","154":"","155":"","156":"","157":"","158":"","159":"","160":"","161":"","162":"","163":"","164":"","165":"","166":"","167":"","168":"","169":"","170":"Eugenics Record Station (Cold Spring Harbor, NY)Genetics and Reproduction","171":"","172":"","173":"","174":""},"pmid":{"0":34349340,"1":30129731,"2":30129728,"3":30129727,"4":30129724,"5":30125078,"6":30125077,"7":30125076,"8":30125075,"9":30125074,"10":30125073,"11":28446834,"12":27066628,"13":27066627,"14":27066626,"15":27066625,"16":27066624,"17":27066623,"18":27066622,"19":27066621,"20":27066620,"21":27066619,"22":27066618,"23":27066617,"24":27066616,"25":26103761,"26":26103760,"27":26103759,"28":26103758,"29":26103757,"30":26103756,"31":26103755,"32":26103754,"33":26103753,"34":26103752,"35":26103751,"36":26103750,"37":26103749,"38":26103748,"39":26103747,"40":26103746,"41":26103745,"42":26103744,"43":21936195,"44":21936194,"45":21936193,"46":21936192,"47":21936191,"48":21936190,"49":21936189,"50":21936188,"51":21936187,"52":21936186,"53":21936185,"54":20973458,"55":20973457,"56":20027771,"57":20027770,"58":20027769,"59":20027768,"60":18831322,"61":18831321,"62":18831320,"63":18831319,"64":18831318,"65":18831317,"66":18831316,"67":18175470,"68":18175469,"69":18175468,"70":18175467,"71":18175466,"72":20503766,"73":20503765,"74":20503764,"75":20503763,"76":20503762,"77":20503761,"78":20503760,"79":20503759,"80":20503758,"81":20503757,"82":15484393,"83":15484391,"84":15484388,"85":15484387,"86":15484386,"87":15478280,"88":15478274,"89":15478273,"90":15478272,"91":15478271,"92":15449396,"93":15449393,"94":15449392,"95":15449391,"96":15449388,"97":15449386,"98":15449385,"99":14631974,"100":14631972,"101":12966933,"102":12966932,"103":12964594,"104":12964593,"105":12964570,"106":12964569,"107":12385323,"108":11973830,"109":11973829,"110":11973828,"111":11971295,"112":11971294,"113":11971293,"114":11971292,"115":11971291,"116":11713791,"117":11713790,"118":11640200,"119":11640199,"120":11640198,"121":11640197,"122":11640196,"123":11640195,"124":11619780,"125":11619779,"126":11619778,"127":11619777,"128":11619776,"129":11618355,"130":11618354,"131":11613429,"132":11613428,"133":11613427,"134":11639585,"135":11639584,"136":11639583,"137":11639582,"138":11639581,"139":11639580,"140":11639579,"141":11639578,"142":11615252,"143":11615251,"144":11615248,"145":11615247,"146":11615245,"147":11615244,"148":11615243,"149":11615242,"150":11678092,"151":11612692,"152":11612691,"153":11612690,"154":11612689,"155":11612688,"156":11612687,"157":11612686,"158":11612685,"159":11612684,"160":11621953,"161":11621952,"162":11621951,"163":11621950,"164":11621949,"165":11621948,"166":11621659,"167":11621658,"168":11621657,"169":11621592,"170":11621591,"171":11621662,"172":11621661,"173":11621660,"174":11612458},"pubdate_year":{"0":2021,"1":2016,"2":2016,"3":2016,"4":2016,"5":2016,"6":2016,"7":2016,"8":2016,"9":2016,"10":2016,"11":2016,"12":2015,"13":2015,"14":2015,"15":2015,"16":2015,"17":2015,"18":2015,"19":2015,"20":2015,"21":2015,"22":2015,"23":2015,"24":2015,"25":2014,"26":2014,"27":2014,"28":2014,"29":2014,"30":2014,"31":2014,"32":2014,"33":2014,"34":2014,"35":2014,"36":2014,"37":2014,"38":2014,"39":2014,"40":2014,"41":2014,"42":2014,"43":2011,"44":2011,"45":2011,"46":2011,"47":2011,"48":2011,"49":2011,"50":2011,"51":2011,"52":2011,"53":2011,"54":2010,"55":2010,"56":2009,"57":2009,"58":2009,"59":2009,"60":2008,"61":2008,"62":2008,"63":2008,"64":2008,"65":2008,"66":2008,"67":2007,"68":2007,"69":2007,"70":2007,"71":2007,"72":2005,"73":2005,"74":2005,"75":2005,"76":2005,"77":2005,"78":2005,"79":2005,"80":2005,"81":2005,"82":2004,"83":2004,"84":2004,"85":2004,"86":2004,"87":2004,"88":2004,"89":2004,"90":2004,"91":2004,"92":2004,"93":2004,"94":2004,"95":2004,"96":2004,"97":2004,"98":2004,"99":2001,"100":2001,"101":2003,"102":2003,"103":2003,"104":2003,"105":2003,"106":2003,"107":2002,"108":2000,"109":2000,"110":2000,"111":2000,"112":1999,"113":1999,"114":1999,"115":1999,"116":2001,"117":2001,"118":1998,"119":1998,"120":1998,"121":1998,"122":1998,"123":1998,"124":1997,"125":1997,"126":1997,"127":1997,"128":1997,"129":1995,"130":1995,"131":1994,"132":1994,"133":1994,"134":1993,"135":1993,"136":1993,"137":1993,"138":1993,"139":1993,"140":1993,"141":1993,"142":1992,"143":1992,"144":1992,"145":1992,"146":1992,"147":1992,"148":1992,"149":1992,"150":1990,"151":1990,"152":1990,"153":1990,"154":1990,"155":1990,"156":1990,"157":1990,"158":1990,"159":1990,"160":1989,"161":1989,"162":1989,"163":1989,"164":1989,"165":1989,"166":1987,"167":1987,"168":1987,"169":1986,"170":1986,"171":1985,"172":1985,"173":1985,"174":1985}}