{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1},"abstracttext":{"0":"Emerging adulthood is marked by elevated risk-taking, and young people living in disadvantaged urban areas experience disproportionately more negative outcomes. Using a sample of young African American women living in such communities, this cross-sectional observational study investigated the hypothesis that greater substance use and sexual risk-taking would be associated with present-dominated time perspectives and higher delay discounting. Young women (N = 223, M age = 20.4 years) from disadvantaged urban areas were recruited using Respondent Driven Sampling, a peer-driven recruitment method. Structured field interviews assessed substance use, sexual practices, and risk\/protective factors, including time perspectives (Zimbardo Time Perspective Inventory [ZTPI]) and behavioral impulsivity (delay discounting task). Regression models showed that present hedonism time perspectives were related to sexual risk-taking and substance involvement, whereas discounting was associated only with sexual risk-taking (ps &lt; .05). Future time perspectives were not associated with either risk behavior. Risk behaviors among young African American women living in disadvantaged urban areas appear to be related to hedonistic rewards available in the present without considering future outcomes. Future research should investigate experimentally if lengthening time perspectives and enriching views of possible futures may aid risk reduction in this population. ","1":"There are relatively few documented teen tobacco use cessation efforts outside the United States (U.S.). Project EX is an evidence-based program that consists of eight sessions, as a school-based clinic tobacco cessation-only version and a classroom-based prevention and cessation version. This paper provides a 'snapshot' of progress on international translation of ProjectEXpilot study work in eight countries that have been approached thus far. The program was implemented in Wuhan, China; Israel and partners; Bashkortostan, Russia; and Elche, Spain. Implementation is planned for Vienna, Austria; Mumbai, India; and Bangkok, Thailand. This work will lead eventually to a greater understanding regarding preference for type of programming (e.g., clinic versus classroom modality), challenges in recruitment and retention, program receptivity, and short-term (approximately 3-month post-program) quit rates. Convenience samples are being recruited based on previous contacts with each location. A protocol was sent to each location, proposing a controlled design, in which subjects enter cessation groups or become a wait-list control, with an immediate pretest, posttest, and 3-month follow-up. Language translation of program materials was completed in seven of the eight locations. Several variations in design and implementation were demanded though. For example, youth fear of reporting tobacco publicly mandated to researchers that the prevention\/cessation classroom version be implemented in some locations (Israel and partners, and India). Program effects are suggested across countries. Ongoing partnerships with parties actively involved in tobacco control facilitate pilot testing of teen tobacco use cessation programming. The Project EX curriculum appears quite translatable, though having flexibility in implementation modality eased being able to pilot test the program. Research on this cognitive-behavioral, motivation enhancement approach continues. "},"articletitle":{"0":"Time Horizons, Drug Use, and Risky Sex in Young Women from Poor Urban Areas.","1":"International Translation of Project EX: A Teen Tobacco Use Cessation Program."},"doi":{"0":"","1":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Sucht","1":"Sucht"},"keyword":{"0":"delay discountingemerging adult African American womensexual risk-takingsubstance usetime perspectives","1":"cessationinternationalyouth"},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":35502297,"1":23885135},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2012}}