{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28,"29":29,"30":30,"31":31,"32":32,"33":33,"34":34,"35":35,"36":36,"37":37,"38":38,"39":39,"40":40,"41":41,"42":42,"43":43,"44":44,"45":45,"46":46,"47":47,"48":48,"49":49,"50":50,"51":51,"52":52,"53":53,"54":54},"abstracttext":{"0":null,"1":"It has become a trope to speak of the increasing value of health data in our societies. Such rhetoric is highly performative: it creates expectations, channels and justifies investments in data technologies and infrastructures, and portrays deliberations on political and legal issues as obstacles to the flow of data. Yet, important epistemic and political questions remain unexamined, such as how the value of data is created, what data journeys are envisioned by policies and regulation, and for whom data types are (intended to be) valuable. Drawing on two empirical cases, (a) interviews with physicians on the topic of digital selfcare, and (b) expectations of stakeholders on the use of Real-World Data in clinical trials, as well as existing literature, we propose a typology of what health data help us to do. This typology is intended to foster reflection about the different roles and values that data use unfolds. We conclude by discussing how regulation can better accommodate practices of valuation in the health data domain, with a particular focus on identifying regulatory challenges and opportunities for EU-level policy makers, and how Covid-19 has shed light on new aspects of each case.","2":"Health data can contain sensitive information. People who consult a doctor seek help on issues that matter to them: they typically expect some form of confidentiality. However, the notion and practices of confidentiality have changed dramatically over time. In this article, we trace the history of confidentiality in the Danish healthcare system, which has one of the world's most integrated patient information infrastructures. Building on an analysis of legal and political documents dating back to the late seventeenth century, we show that confidentiality originated as a social phenomenon that helped build trust in healthcare professionals and gradually developed into an idiom of citizens rights. Lately, confidentiality has given way to more technocratic forms of data protection. As the political, legal and technological reality, which the idea of confidentiality once referred to, has radically changed, we argue that confidentiality has become what Ulrik Beck has called a 'zombie category'-a notion that lives on even if its content has passed away. If confidentiality has become a zombie concept, we suggest it is time to discuss what may take its place so that patient interests are protected in the current political economy of health data.","3":"The UK response to Covid-19 has been unusually complex in its ever-shifting classifications of clinical vulnerability. By May 2020, 2.2 million people had been identified as 'clinically extremely vulnerable' (CEV) and were asked to 'shield' at home for over four months. To adhere to this strict guidance, they were enfolded within the patchy infrastructure of the 'shielding programme'. However, membership of the 'shielded list' has changed-often without warning or explanation-through time and across space. Drawing on policy and evidentiary documents, government speeches, reports, press conferences and media analysis of Covid-19 coverage between March 2020 and April 1, 2021, this paper traces the shifting delineations of clinical vulnerability in the UK response across three lockdowns. It argues that the complexities and confusions generated by the transience of the CEV category have fed into forms of biosociality that have been as much about making practical sense of government guidance as a form of mutual support amid crisis. This uncertainty has not eased as restrictions have been relaxed and vaccines rolled out. Instead, tracing individual immune response has become a burgeoning industry as 'the shielded' navigate the uneasy demands of taking 'personal responsibility' rather than being protected by 'the rules'.","4":"Patient activism organizations are formed around and seek legitimacy via both biological and biographical identities (Fassin, in: Theory Cult Soc 26(5):44-60, 2009). In the case of sickle cell disease (SCD) in Brazil, two different modes of suffering authenticate the lived experience-one is based on the disease state, the other is based on the ways in which racial inequalities and disadvantage contribute to its own suffering while also entangled with disease-based suffering. SCD is a rare genetic disorder that affects red blood cells and whose hallmark symptom is pain. This paper places an ethnographic focus on the failed mobilization of suffering by an organization leader in attempts to make claims for inclusion. The leader's social and biological identities of mother, sickle cell trait carrier, middle class, and mulata disrupted biosocial cohesion. This disruption reveals a hierarchy of suffering, where some indices of suffering are delegitimized. This hierarchy illuminates how exclusion and representation work within a patient organization whose membership embody both physical and social distress.","5":"","6":"This paper describes CliniCrowd, a patient-designed, entrepreneurial, crowd-sourced citizen-science approach to evaluating mannitol-essentially, an orphan drug-as a Parkinson's disease treatment. As such, CliniCrowd addresses 'undone science', and our paper contributes to the sociological literature thereon. Based on 38 qualitative interviews, fieldwork, and content analyses (2017-2020), we trace CliniCrowd's background and rationale. We: discuss undone science and its wider contexts; present earlier iterations of citizen-science and treatment activism; examine CliniCrowd's application of crowd-sourced citizen-science to address undone science around 'orphan drug' treatment for Parkinson's disease; explore how CliniCrowd has evolved, and re-framed its work, since its founding; ponder its future; and consider whether their approach can guide future citizen-science treatment research. Our paper contributes to the existing literature in four ways. First, we focus on medical treatment issues, an under-studied area of undone science. Second, we highlight orphan drugs as both major source of, and fruitful area for research on, undone science. Third, we describe CliniCrowd's pragmatic, entrepreneurial-rather than the more common activist-citizen-science approach to addressing undone treatment science. Finally, from our data on CliniCrowd we distil a preliminary model for future treatment activism around undone science.","7":"In the last few decades, assisted reproductive technologies (ARTs) have become increasingly transregional and transnational, often involving travel within or between countries or even continents. Until recently, the global ART industry was marked by so-called 'reprohubs'-places (such as southern California, Dubai, Anand, and Mumbai) specializing in the provision of reproductive services. While reprohubs continue to exist, in the last few years, many have splayed out, transforming into something more akin to webs that encompass, but go beyond these hubs. These webs show a unique dynamic capability to tighten, entangle, or extend in reaction to local and global changes, a characteristic which became particularly obvious during the global Covid-19 pandemic. In this paper, we propose conceptualizing this new dynamic capability as 'reprowebs'-an approach that adds a new dimension to the existing conceptualization of reproductive travel and helps us to better understand current developments in the global ART industry.","8":"This article explores recent HIV prevention campaigns for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), focusing on how they integrate pleasure and desire in their calls for self-discipline through a continual use of pharmaceuticals. This emerging type of health promotion, here represented by ads promoting the preventive use of pharmaceuticals, no longer simply approaches target groups with demands to abstain from harmful substances or practices and thus control risks, but also includes messages that recognize individuals' habits, values, and their desires for pleasure. Drawing on Foucault's work concerning discipline and security, we suggest that a novel, permissive discipline is emerging in contemporary HIV prevention. Further guided by Barthes's theory of images, we analyse posters used in prevention campaigns, scrutinizing their culture-specific imagery and linguistic messages, i.e. how the words and images interact. We conclude that these campaigns introduce a new temporality of prevention, one centred on pleasure through the pre-emption and planning that PrEP enables.","9":null,"10":"Medicine is often thought of as a science of the body, but it is also a science of data. In some contexts, it can even be asserted that data drive health. This article focuses on a key piece of data technology central to contemporary practices of medicine: the medical record. By situating the medical record in the perspective of its history, we inquire into how the kinds of data that are kept at sites of clinical encounter often depend on informational requirements that originate well outside of the clinic, in particular in health insurance records systems. Although this dependency of today's electronic medical records on billing requirements is widely lamented by clinical providers, its history remains little studied. Following the archaeology of medicine developed by Michel Foucault in The Birth of the Clinic and expanding his methodology in light of more recent contributions to the field of media archaeology, this article excavates some of the underexplored technological conditions that help constitute today's electronic medical record. If in some contexts, it is true that data drive health, then an archaeology of medical records helps reveal how health insurance records often impact clinical care and, by extension, health and disease.","11":"The ever-expanding availability of reproductive technologies, the continued roll-out of 'family planning' and maternity services across low- and middle-income settings and the rapid development of the fertility industry mean that it is more likely than ever that individuals, especially women and gender non-conforming people, will engage with more than one RT at some point in their life. These multiple engagements with RTs will affect users' expectations and uptake, as well as the technologies' availability, commercial success, ethical status and social meanings. We argue that an integrated approach to the study of RTs and their users not only makes for better research, but also more politically conscious research, which questions some of the ideological precepts that have led to reproduction being parcelled out into biomedical specialisations and a disproportionate focus on particular forms of reproduction in particular disciplines within public health and social science research. We offer this article as part of a wider movement in the study of reproduction and reproductive technologies, which takes inspiration from the reproductive justice framework to address forms of exclusion, discrimination and stratification that are perpetuated in the development and application of reproductive technologies and the ways in which they are studied and theorised.","12":"How best are we to understand appeals to participate in a biomedical project that are based both on invoking shared racial identity, and on framing engagement as the clear moral course of action? Stem cell donor recruitment, which often focuses on engaging racially minoritised communities, provides useful insight into this question. This article proposes that it is not an essential mutual racial identity between the person asking and the person asked at play. Rather, it is the creative 'doing' of relatedness between people at the scale of race as well as family that coalesces into powerful appeals to participate. Through analysis of ethnographic, documentary and social media data, the paper argues that this work relies at least partly on framing donation as a duty of being part of a racialised community, which I describe here as an ethico-racial imperative, in which both race and responsibility become intertwined to compel participation in the biomedical project of donor registration. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1057\/s41292-021-00241-9. ","13":null,"14":"There is little research on how nationalism is adopted and deployed to foster but also to challenge sex-, gender- and HIV-related stigma in Thailand and other nation states across Southeast Asia. The available literature highlights how self-help groups for Thai people with HIV function as communities of practice, as sites of learning, and for gaining and preserving knowledge (Tanabe 2008, Liamputtong 2009, 2014). This article contributes to the literature by demonstrating how collectives of same-sex-attracted men and male-to-female transgender people living with HIV (PLHIV) in Thailand learn and teach each other how to alleviate social and personal barriers that impede access to health care. The study adopted qualitative research methods and interviewed 22 participants in five cities in Thailand. This article highlights how collective action, which adopts and reinterprets the symbols and metaphors of Thai nationalism, acts as a 'deviance disavowal' strategy (Davis 1961). By deploying Thai nationalism, same-sex attracted men and transgender PLHIV reposition 'spoiled identities' and break through the stigma they report after HIV diagnosis. Describing mechanisms of 'deviance disavowal' in Thailand may provide an opportunity to deploy strategies to manage stigma that interferes with access to health care in Thailand, and in other nation states, and may be applicable to other stigmatised groups and illnesses.","15":"As digital health technologies (DHT) have been embraced as a 'panacea' for health care systems, they have evolved from a buzzword into a high priority objective for health policy across the globe. In the realm of quality and safety standards for medical devices, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has been a frontrunner in adapting its regulatory framework to DHT. However, despite the utmost relevance of quality and safety standards and their role for sustaining the innovation pathway of DHT, their actual making has not yet been subjected to in-depth social-science scrutiny. Drawing on the conceptual repertoires of Science and Technology Studies (STS), this article investigates how digital health evolved from a buzzword into an 'object of government', or gained material meaning and transformed into a regulatable object, by charting the standard-making process of FDA's medical digital health policy between 2008 and 2018. From this, we reflect on the mutually sustaining dynamics between technological and organizational innovation, as the FDA's attempts to standardize medical DHT not only shaped the lifestyle\/medical boundary for DHT. It also led to significant reconfigurations within the FDA itself, while fostering a broader shift toward the uptake of alternative forms of evidence in regulatory science.","16":"This article critically examines UK biometric policymaking by charting the bodies identified by the 2018 Home Office Biometric Strategy as playing key roles in the oversight of biometric data used in law enforcement and other related functions. The article argues that oversight actors are embedded in biometric imaginaries promoted by the UK Home Office and the devolved Scottish administration. By mapping oversight of UK biometrics policy together with developments in Scotland, the article challenges sociotechnical imaginaries studies which assume the power of national governments to project dominant, cohesive and instrumental visions. The article peels away that image to reveal UK biometric policy as located within a patchwork in which embedded commissioners, regulators and advisors challenge biometric imaginaries through interpretive flexibility and standpoint. By identifying technical, operational, legislative and ethical issues, these actors challenge the UK government imaginary and act as channels of critique between it and wider stakeholder communities. The article further challenges assumptions concerning the cohesion of national imaginaries by highlighting a diverging approach to biometric governance in Scotland. The article uses these observations to sketch a means to further characterise the notion of the biometric imaginary and to address biometric policymaking more widely.","17":"This article traces the history of India's first tertiary cancer hospital, Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH). TMH was originally conceived in 1932 as a philanthropic project by the Tatas, an elite Parsi business family in Bombay. The founding of TMH represented a form of philanthro-capitalism which both enabled the Tatas to foster a communal acceptance for big businesses in Bombay and provide the Tatas with the opportunity to place stakes in the emerging nuclear research economy seen as essential to the scientific nationalist sentiment of the post-colonial state. In doing this, the everyday activities of TMH placed a heavy emphasis on nuclear research. In a time when radium for the treatment of cancer was still seen as 'quackery' in much of the world, the philanthro-capitalist investment and the interest in nuclear research by the post-colonial state provided an environment where radium medicine was able to be validated. The validation of radiotherapy at TMH influenced how other cancer hospitals in India developed and also provided significant resources for cancer research in early-mid twentieth century India. Ultimately, this article identifies ways in which cancer comes to be seen as relevant in the global south and raises questions on the relationship between local and global actors in setting health priorities.","18":null,"19":"","20":"With newfound relevance in the context of Covid-19, we focus on the coughing body, building on an in-depth qualitative study of three UK lung infection clinics treating people with cystic fibrosis. Conceptually we take our cue from Norbert Elias and the way something as physiologically fundamental as coughing becomes the focus of etiquette and technique, touching also on themes central to Mary Douglas' anthropology of pollution. This is explored through four themes. First, we show how coughing becomes a matter of biopolitical citizenship expressed through etiquettes that also displace pollution anxieties to surroundings. Second, coughing is a question of being assisted to cough through the mediation of professional skills, interventions and devices. Third, coughing is seen to be central to the sonographic soundscape of the healthcare environment whereby people learn to recognise (and sometimes misrecognise) each other through the 'sound' of the cough. Finally, coughing properly can be seen to have both a 'time and a place' including the retreat of the cough from public space into risky confined spaces. Our conclusion speculates on the way these insights shed light on aspects of life that, until the Covid-19 pandemic, lay largely hidden.","21":"This paper traces the history of the concept of metabolic disorder in global health and its application to the collection of health metrics relating to the 'epidemic' of non-communicable diseases in Southern Africa, with a focus on Malawi. Although the contemporary science of metabolism points to complexity and contingency, the application of a simplified version of 'metabolic disorder' or 'metabolic syndrome' as the supposed central driver of non-communicable disease in low- and middle-income countries runs the risk of obscuring the ways in which local circumstances and histories interact with global forces to produce epidemiological change. The paper discusses health data collection and its interpretation in Malawi to demonstrate how the use of this concept has led to a narrowing of the category of non-communicable disease and a neglect of the role of infectious disease in producing chronic conditions. Finally, the paper points to alternative approaches which might yield a better understanding of pressing health problems.","22":"Many epigenetic studies focus on how stress, trauma, and care become molecularly embodied, affect gene expression without changing DNA sequence, and produce changes that influence the health and behavior of individuals, their offspring, and future generations. This article describes how care has become central in research on the epigenetic effects of early-life adversity. My analysis draws on two years of ethnographic research in a behavioral epigenetics laboratory in the United States. Building on traditions in feminist theory and the sociology of science, I document how care is enacted with research samples, experimental protocols, and behavioral endpoints in experiments with model organisms. My findings point to tensions between researchers' care for the data and their measurement of adversity as a discrete variable in the form of maternal interaction, neglect, and abuse. I argue that these tensions suggest a \"paradox of care\" that is actively shaping how epigenetic knowledge is produced and its impacts in society. My analysis shows how decisions in the lab are shaping new understandings of how early-life experiences influence health, with significant impacts on our expectations of mothers and pregnant women. This study suggests that the more complex explanations of health and development promised by epigenetics are simultaneously constructed and constrained by caring practices in the laboratory.","23":"Epigenetics, the study of the processes that control gene expression without a change in DNA sequence, highlights the importance of environmental factors in gene regulation. This paper maps the terrain of epigenetics and identifies four main research subfields: gene expression; molecular epigenetics; clinical epigenetics and epigenetic epidemiology. Within and across these fields, we analyse of what is conceptualised as environment and demonstrate the variable ways authors understand epigenetics environments. Then, following an analysis of the discursive strategies employed by epigenetics researchers, we demonstrate how authors portray the interactions between genes, epigenetics, and environment as relationships linking the outside (where the environment is located) with the inside (where the genes are located). We argue that authors assign specific roles to each actor: the environment as the active player initiating the relationship, the genes as recipients, and epigenetics as mediators between environment and genes. Framed as mediators, epigenetic markers can be understood as enablers of communication between environment and genome, capable of processing and organising signals so as to regulate the interactions between the actors of epigenetic relationships. This finding complicates the observation by social science scholars that the interactions between environment and genes can be understood through the concept of signal.","24":"Drawing on empirical ethnographic research in Brazil this paper examines how in the spaces between identifying genetic markers and conditional cancer risk, environments and diverse epigenetic logics are emerging and being negotiated among research and clinical communities, patients and their families. Focusing on an arena of research and medical intervention related to a gene variant known as R337h, thought to occur with high frequency in the south of Brazil and linked to the cancer syndrome Li-Fraumeni, it emphasises the relevance of examining epigenetics as an emic category but also its utility as an analytic category. It shows how in a context of not yet fully knowing how and in what ways R337h contributes to increased cancer, a range of different 'environments' are invoked that unevenly articulate an emerging and still inchoate and unfolding terrain of understanding. In an arena of expanding genomic research and medicine, where the identification of low risk mutations associated with cancer is increasingly common, the Brazilian case provides a particular lens on the way environments and genes are being meaningfully calibrated and how differently implicated communities resourcefully populate the gaps in knowledge and understanding with consequences for research, care and embodied risk.","25":"Mycobacterium bovis, the bacterium responsible for causing bovine tuberculosis (bTB) in cattle, displays what I call 'microbial performativity'. Like many other lively disease-causing microorganisms, it has an agency which is difficult to contain, and there is a need for fresh thinking on the challenges of dealing with this slippery and indeterminate microbe. As a practising veterinary scientist who side-stepped mid-career into a parallel training in the social sciences to view bTB from an alternative perspective, I create an interdisciplinary coming-together where veterinary science converges with a political ecology of (animal) health influenced by science and technology studies (STS) and social science and humanities scholarship on performativity. This suitably hybridized nexus creates a place to consider the ecologies of a pathogen which could be considered as life out of control. I consider what this means for efforts to eradicate this disease through combining understandings from the published scientific literature with qualitative interview-based fieldwork with farmers, veterinarians and others involved in the statutory bTB eradication programme in a high incidence region of the UK. This study demonstrates the value of life scientists turning to the social sciences to re-view their familiar professional habitus-challenging assumptions, and offering alternative perspectives on complex problems.","26":"One of the most notable recent changes in autism science is the belief that autism is a heterogeneous condition with no singular essence. I argue that this notion of 'autistic heterogeneity' can be conceived as an 'agential cut' and traced to uncertainty work conducted by cognitive psychologists during the early 1990s. Researchers at this time overcame uncertainty in scientific theory by locating it within autism itself: epistemological uncertainty was interwoven with ontological indeterminacy and autism became heterogeneous and chance like, a condition determined by indeterminacy. This paper considers not only the conceptual significance of this move but also the impact upon forms of subjectivity. This analysis is undertaken by integrating the agential realism of Karen Barad with the historical ontology of Michel Foucault. I argue that these two approaches are, firstly, concerned with ontologies of emergence and, secondly, foreground the inherently ethical nature of change. As such these theories can be used to articulate an 'ethics of transformation'. I argue that the agential cut which brought about autistic heterogeneity is potentially problematic within an ethics of transformation, limiting the possibility of future change in subjectivity by imagining difference and resistance as properties of autism rather than the individual.","27":"Tissue engineering is a set of biomedical technologies, including stem cell science, which seek to grow biological tissue for a diversity of applications. In this paper, we explore two emergent tissue engineering technologies that seek to cause a step change in the upscaling capacity of cell growth: cultured blood and cultured meat. Cultured blood technology seeks to replace blood transfusion with a safe and affordable bioengineered replacement. Cultured meat technology seeks to replace livestock-based food production with meat produced in a bioreactor. Importantly, cultured meat technology straddles the industrial contexts of biomedicine and agrifood. In this paper, we articulate (i) the shared and divergent promissory trajectories of the two technologies and (ii) the anticipated market, consumer, and regulatory contexts of each. Our analysis concludes by discussing how the sectoral ontologies of biomedicine and agri-food impact the performative capacity of each technology's promissory trajectory.","28":"The gene has infiltrated the way citizens perceive themselves and their health. However, there is scant research that explores the ways genetic conceptions infiltrate individuals' understanding of their own health as it relates to a behavioral trait, like addiction. Do people seeking treatment for addiction ground their self-perception in biology in a way that shapes their experiences? We interviewed 63 participants in addiction treatment programs, asking how they make meaning of a genetic understanding of addiction in the context of their recovery, and in dealing with the stigma of addiction. About two-thirds of people in our sample did not find a genetic conception of addiction personally useful to them in treatment, instead believing that the cause was irrelevant to their daily struggle to remain abstinent. One-third of respondents believed that an individualized confirmation of a genetic predisposition to addiction would facilitate their dealing with feelings of shame and accept treatment. The vast majority of our sample believed that a genetic understanding of addiction would reduce the stigma associated with addiction, which demonstrates the perceived power of genetic explanations in U.S. society. Our results indicate that respondents (unevenly) ground their self-perception of themselves as an addicted individual in biology.","29":"Metrics have become all pervasive in global health today. Instead of highlighting their advantages or shortcomings, this article builds on Hacking's notion of historical ontology and explores their political, conceptual and material conditions of possibility. Drawing on research on the Bloomberg Initiative to Reduce Tobacco Use in Developing Countries, one of the largest international efforts to address the non-communicable disease epidemic in the global South, the article starts by introducing the notion of epidemiological reason - a thought style associated with modern epidemiology that undergirds the metrics permeating the global health field and which is made of a multiplicity of elements, from the ethical imperative to save lives to the social-scientific technique of the survey and the concept of global population. The article then goes on to explore the genealogy of this thought style, arguing that three epistemological ruptures have been critical to its development: the reconfiguration of power articulated around a biopolitics of population in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries; the twentieth-century shift in medical thought marked by the emergence of surveillance medicine and the idea of lifestyle; and the re-organisation of world health informed by globalisation theories at the start of the twenty-first century.","30":null,"31":"","32":"This article is about selective abortion. It concentrates on the existential, moral and social conditions that arise when pregnant women, using prenatal diagnosis (PND), are told that there is something seriously wrong with the foetuses that they are carrying. This is characterised as a micro state of emergency, where both normal cognitive categories and normative orders are dissolved. The analyses are anchored in the womens' own presentations and understandings of the processes and dilemmas related to the abortion decisions, and our most important empirical materials are interviews with women who have experienced them. Our main ambition is to show the relation between some important dimensions of the situation in which the abortion decision has to be made, and the special kind of authority on behalf of the women that presents itself. Of equal importance is the vulnerability of the pregnant women, resulting in a co-production of the women as both Sovereigns and Homo Sacer in the decision situation. We also analyse some of the experienced relations between the women and the foetuses, and how the women constitute themselves as moral subjects, with a particular emphasis on the motifs of sacrifice and self-sacrifice. It is a central argument in the article that we have to understand the specificity of the decision situation, without reducing it either to other phases (before or after) of the total processes of PND and selective abortion, or to general discourses of disability or normality. The specificity of the situation in which the abortion decision is made is a pivotal point in society's regulation (in a broad sense) of the field and in the constitution of the regime of selective abortion.","33":"Public funding for research on the action of drugs in countries like the United States requires that racial classification of research subjects should be considered when defining the composition of the samples as well as in data analysis, sometimes resulting in interpretations that Whites and Blacks differ in their pharmacogenetic profiles. In Brazil, pharmacogenomic results have led to very different interpretations when compared with those obtained in the United States. This is explained as deriving from the genomic heterogeneity of the Brazilian population. This article argues that in the evolving field of pharmacogenomics research in Brazil there is simultaneously both an incorporation and rejection of the US informed race-genes paradigm. We suggest that this must be understood in relation to continuities with national and transnational history of genetic research in Brazil, a differently situated politics of Brazilian public health and the ongoing valorization of miscegenation or race mixture by Brazilian geneticists as a resource for transnational genetic research. Our data derive from anthropological investigation conducted in INCA (Brazilian National Cancer Institute), in Rio de Janeiro, with a focus on the drug warfarin. The criticism of Brazilian scientists regarding the uses of racial categorization includes a revision of mathematical algorithms for drug dosage widely used in clinical procedures around the world. Our analysis reveals how the incorporation of ideas of racial purity and admixture, as it relates to the efficacy of drugs, touches on issues related to the possibility of application of pharmaceutical technologies on a global scale.","34":"Previous scholarship on novel foods, including functional foods, has suggested that they are difficult to categorise for both regulators and users. It is argued that they blur the boundary between 'food' and 'drug' and that uncertainties about the products create 'experimental' or 'restless' approaches to consumption. We investigate these uncertainties drawing on data about the use of functional foods containing phytosterols, which are licensed for sale in the EU for people wishing to reduce their cholesterol. We start from an interest in the products as material objects and their incorporation into everyday practices. We consider the scripts encoded in the physical form of the products through their regulation, production and packaging and find that these scripts shape but do not determine their use. The domestication of phytosterols involves bundling the products together with other objects (pills, supplements, foodstuffs). Considering their incorporation into different systems of objects offers new understandings of the products as foods or drugs. In their accounts of their practices, consumers appear to be relatively untroubled by uncertainties about the character of the products. We conclude that attending to materials and practices offers a productive way to open up and interrogate the idea of categorical uncertainties surrounding new food products.","35":"This article examines the way the category of 'the sensorial' is mobilised across obesity research and care practices for overweight persons in France. The 'natural' body is understood to have developed mechanisms that motivate eaters to seek out energy-dense foods, a hardwiring that is maladaptive in today's plethoric food environment. The article analyses the feedback models mobilised in scientific literature on the neuroendocrine processes regulating appetite. The analysis of how 'the sensorial' is studied and used to treat patients provides a vantage point onto the ways foods and bodies transform each other. Recent findings show that fat cells influence metabolism by secreting hormones, revealing that eaters are affected by the materiality of the foods they ingest. 'The sensorial' functions as a regulator in the feedback mechanisms where social norms regulating foodscapes become enfolded in the molecular processes that control appetite regulation. The article traces the work that the category of 'the sensorial' does as it flows through the loops and feedbacks between scientific evidence, policy and care. It examines the way pleasure and the sensations of eaters are increasingly foregrounded in French nutritional health promotion strategies in a context where informing eaters is increasingly deemed ineffective.","36":"This article compares the treatment of living beings (unvaccinated chickens and infected cells) considered as sentinel devices in a farm and in a lab in Hong Kong. Sentinel devices are defined as living beings posted on a boundary from which they send signals of invisible threats. The ethnography looks at how they transform differences between ordinary lives and lives exposed, between good death and bad death, through the practices of those who feed them. In farms and labs exposed to Avian Influenza viruses, the logic of biosecurity intersects with a logic of care, blurring the distinction between self and other, friend and enemy through aesthetic judgments concerning what is a 'good death'. Metabolism and immunity are redefined when sentinels are fed to produce clear signals of the mutations of viruses.","37":"Epigenetics is one of the most rapidly expanding fields in the life sciences. Its rise is frequently framed as a revolutionary turn that heralds a new epoch both for gene-based epistemology and for the wider discourse on life that pervades knowledge-intensive societies of the molecular age. The fundamentals of this revolution remain however to be scrutinized, and indeed the very contours of what counts as 'epigenetic' are often blurred. This is reflected also in the mounting discourse on the societal implications of epigenetics, in which vast expectations coexist with significant uncertainty about what aspects of this science are most relevant for politics or policy alike. This is therefore a suitable time to reflect on the directions that social theory could most productively take in the scrutiny of this revolution. Here we take this opportunity in both its scholarly and normative dimension, that is, proposing a roadmap for social theorizing on epigenetics that does not shy away from, and indeed hopefully guides, the framing of its most socially relevant outputs. To this end, we start with an epistemological reappraisal of epigenetic discourse that valorizes the blurring of meanings as a critical asset for the field and privileged analytical entry point. We then propose three paths of investigation. The first looks at the structuring elements of controversies and visions around epigenetics. The second probes the mutual constitution between the epigenetic reordering of living phenomena and the normative settlements that orient individual and collective responsibilities. The third highlights the material import of epigenetics and the molecularization of culture that it mediates. We suggest that these complementary strands provide both an epistemically and socially self-reflective framework to advance the study of epigenetics as a molecular juncture between nature and nurture and thus as the new critical frontier in the social studies of the life sciences.","38":"Institutions need to ignore some knowledge in order to function. This is \"uncomfortable knowledge\" because it undermines the ability of those institutions to pursue their goals (Rayner, 2012). We identify three bodies of knowledge that are relevant to understandings of the dual use threat posed by synthetic biology but are excluded from related policy discussions. We demonstrate how these \"unknown knowns\" constitute uncomfortable knowledge because they disrupt the simplified worldview that underpins contemporary discourse on the potential misuse of synthetic biology by malign actors. We describe how these inconvenient truths have been systematically ignored and argue that this is because they are perceived as a threat by organisations involved in the promotion of synthetic biology as well as by those involved in managing biosecurity risks. This has led to a situation where concerns about the biosecurity threat posed by synthetic biology are not only exaggerated, but are, more importantly, misplaced. This, in turn, means that related policies are misdirected and unlikely to have much impact. We focus on the dynamics of discussions about synthetic biology and dual use to demonstrate how the same \"knowns\" that are denied or dismissed as \"unknown knowns\" in certain circumstances are sometimes mobilised as \"known knowns\" by the same category of actors in a different context, when this serves to sustain the goals of the individuals and institutions involved. Based on our own experience, we argue that negotiating the dynamics of uncomfortable knowledge is a difficult, but necessary, component of meaningful transdisciplinary collaborations.","39":"","40":"In this article, we evaluate a novel method for post-ELSI (ethical, legal and social implications) collaboration, drawing on 'human practices' (HP) to develop a form of reflexive ethical equipment that we termed 'sociotechnical circuits'. We draw on a case study of working collaboratively in the International Genetically Engineered Machine Competition (iGEM) and relate this to the parts-based agenda of synthetic biology. We use qualitative methods to explore the experience of undergraduate students in the Competition, focussing on the 2010 University of Sheffield team. We examine how teams work collaboratively across disciplines to produce novel microorganisms. The Competition involves a HP component and we examine the way in which this has been narrowly defined within the ELSI framework. We argue that this is a much impoverished style of HP when compared with its original articulation as the development of 'ethical equipment'. Inspired by this more theoretically rich HP framework, we explore the relations established between team members and how these were shaped by the norms, materials and practices of the Competition. We highlight the importance of care in the context of post-ELSI collaborations and report on the implications of our case study for such efforts and for the relation of the social sciences to the life sciences more generally.","41":"This article addresses the increasing influence of economic rationalities in global health over the past 30 years by examining the genealogy of one economic strategy - taxation - that has become central to international anti-smoking initiatives in the global South. It argues that this genealogy sits uncomfortably with the usual story about economics and global health, which reduces the economisation of international health to neoliberal structural adjustment policies aimed at stabilisation, liberalisation and privatisation and laments their detrimental effect on health. While not disputing these policies' importance and damaging impact, the genealogy of tobacco taxes outlined in this article shows that the economisation of global health is not only about neoliberal structural adjustment policies but also about sin taxes, market failures and health economics. By stressing how changes in health like the global South's epidemiological transition can impact on economics and how beneficial taxation can be for health, it also shows that the relation between economics and health is not always unidirectional and detrimental to the latter. In doing so, the article contributes to the critique of the often mechanical use of neo-liberalism to explicate change and calls for other stories about the economisation of global health to be told.","42":"Over the past two decades, molecular technologies have transformed the landscape of cancer diagnosis, treatment and disease surveillance. However, although the effects of these technologies in the areas of primary and secondary cancer prevention have been the focus of growing study, their role in tertiary prevention remains largely unexamined. Treating this topic as a problematic to be conceptually explored rather than empirically demonstrated, this article focuses on the molecularisation of tertiary prevention, especially the growing use of molecular biomarkers to monitor disease recurrence. Taking a semiotic approach, I speculate on the potential meanings of molecular biomarkers for people living with and beyond cancer and suggest the meanings of these technologies may differ in important ways for those on both sides of the risk divide: that is, those 'at risk' for cancer and those living with realised risk. Although molecular biomarkers may intensify a sense of 'measured vulnerability', by indexing cancer's presence they may also prove reassuring. Moreover, as an invisible but ostensibly 'transparent' sign, in some contexts they appear to enable cancer survivors to challenge biomedical decision making. In the light of recent oncological debates about the value of these biomarkers in tertiary prevention, I conclude by suggesting that signs can never be reduced to their 'objective' biomedical denotation in spite of professional attempts to expunge meaning and value from care.","43":"","44":"We provide the first detailed analysis of how, for what purposes and with what consequences people related to someone with a diagnosis of schizophrenia use 'gene talk'. The article analyses findings from a qualitative interview study conducted in London and involving 19 participants (mostly women). We transcribed the interviews verbatim and analysed them using grounded theory methods. We analyse how and for what purposes participants mobilized 'gene talk' in their affectively freighted encounter with an unknown interviewer. Gene talk served to (re)position blame and guilt, and was simultaneously used imaginatively to forge family history narratives. Family members used 'gene talk' to recruit forebears with no psychiatric diagnosis into a family history of mental illness, and presented the origins of the diagnosed family member's schizophrenia as lying temporally before, and hence beyond the agency of the immediate family. Gene talk was also used in attempts to dislodge the distressing figure of the schizophrenia-inducing mother. 'Gene talk', however, ultimately displaced, rather than resolved, the (self-)blame of many family members, particularly mothers. Our article challenges the commonly expressed view that genetic accounts will absolve family members' sense of (self-)blame in relation to their relative's\/relatives' diagnosis.","45":"Recent decades have seen a shift in the management and discussion of biomedicine. Issues once considered by doctors and scientists are now handled by a diverse array of participants, including philosophers, lawyers, theologians and lay representatives. This new approach, known as 'bioethics', has become the norm in regulatory committees and public debate. In this article, I argue that bioethics emerged as a valued enterprise in Britain during the 1980s because it fulfilled, and linked, the concerns of several groups. My analysis centres on the moral philosopher Mary Warnock, who chaired a government inquiry into human fertilization and embryology between 1982 and 1984, and became a strong advocate of bioethics. I detail how Warnock's promotion of bioethics tallied with the Conservative government's desire for increased surveillance of hitherto autonomous professions - while fulfilling her own belief that philosophers should engage in public affairs. And I also show that Warnock simultaneously promoted bioethics to doctors and scientists as an essential safeguard against declining political and public trust. This stance, I argue, framed bioethics as a vital intermediary between politics, the public, and biomedicine, and explains the growth and endurance of what the Guardian identified as an ethics industry.","46":"The twenty-first century has witnessed an increasing confluence of rapidly advancing science and its embodiment in practical technologies, an extensive global diffusion of the knowledge and capabilities associated with those developments, and a seemingly unending shift in the international security environment. The scope and intensity of these interactions in the life sciences have generated concern about security risks stemming from possible misuse. This lecture focuses on one of the key emerging life science technologies of concern, gene synthesis, and considers how the new risks and challenges it poses for governance can best be managed.","47":"Nutritional epigenetics seeks to explain the effects of nutrition on gene expression. For social science, it is an area of life science whose analysis reveals a concentrated form of a wider shift in the understanding of food and metabolism. Rather than the chemical conversion of food to energy and body matter of classic metabolism, food is now also a conditioning environment that shapes the activity of the genome and the physiology of the body. It is thought that food in prenatal and early postnatal life impacts adult-onset diseases such as diabetes and heart disease; exposure to food is seen as a point of potential intervention in long-term health of individuals and populations. This article analyzes how food has become environment in nutritional epigenetics, with a focus on the experimental formalization of food. The experimental image of human life generated in rodent models, it is argued, generates concepts of food as a form of molecular exposure. This scientific discourse has profound implications for how food is perceived, manufactured and regulated, as well as for social theories and analyses of the social body that have a long history of imbrication with scientific models of metabolism.","48":"The relationship among genetic technologies, biosocial identity and patient subjectivity has been the focus of an increasing range of social science literature. Examining mainly European and North American contexts this work has demonstrated the variable configurations of genetic knowledge-practices and the diverse implications for at-risk individuals and populations. This article brings together ethnographic research on genomic medicine, public health and breast cancer in Cuba, Greece and Germany. Although each case study addresses different publics\/patients, institutional settings and risk-related practices, they all critically examine 'neoliberal' subjectivity and BRCA patienthood, at the intersection of political rationalities, medical discourses, social conditions and moral codes. In the Cuban case, cultural articulations of inherited and other embodied risks relating to breast cancer are analysed in relation to state provision of 'community genetics', and the shifting dynamics of public health in response to global social processes. The Greek case explores how culturally embedded values, notions of inherited risk and care inform or are re-articulated through institutional practices and ambivalent subject positions, at the meeting point between individualised medicine, religious philanthropy and the particularities of public health. In the German context, diverging patient subjectivities are examined against the background of prevailing social discourses and institutionalised risk management practices that promote proactive individuality. Drawing on deconstructive and feminist analyses, these case studies reveal how normative 'neoliberal' patient subjects are only 'partially reproduced' in situated contexts, neither stable nor homogeneous, as different actors and publics variously articulate, embrace or engage with transnational as well as culturally embedded discourses and health practices.","49":null,"50":"Chinese government funding of R&amp;D ranks third in the world. Yet China ranks only 17th in terms of scientific productivity per unit of investment. The author recently conducted fieldwork on the team structure of 22 Chinese stem cell research groups. Interview data suggest that although Chinese research groups closely resemble their international counter-parts in many respects, there are also significant differences which are perceived by interviewees to affect levels of scientific productivity. One characteristic of Chinese research teams is a common deficiency in middle-layer positions. This shortage of experienced professionals is perceived by scientists participating in this study to have led to two consequences. First, inexperienced student researchers often form the backbone of scientific teams in China, which leads to frequent interruptions of research and extended laboratory training. Second, research teams consist of a relatively small number of personnel. These structural features are seen to create excessive social boundaries, which impede the exchange of information and further worsens the segmentation of resources. This article engages the question of the extent to which interviewees' local 'embedded' understandings of these difficulties may make a productive contribution to the analysis of the structural, and infra-structural, organization of Chinese professional bioscience teams.","51":"Emerging technological advances in genetics and neuroscience have spawned innovative or elaborated conceptual models in the field of addiction science, as well as contributed to the mushrooming of new knowledge. By addictions, reference is made to chronic, often relapsing disorders typified by obsession, compulsion, or physical or psychological dependence. In this article it is proposed that a multilevel developmental contextual approach to substance use and addictions provides a useful framework for integrating existing studies across disciplines and serving as a generative guide to intriguing novel research questions. The multilevel developmental contextual approach emphasizes multiple factor influences on substance use and addiction, the conjoint influence of variables from different levels of analysis (e.g., genetic, biochemical, physiological, cognitive, social, neighborhood, societal), and dynamic, probabilistic behavior-outcome relations (i.e., the occurrence as well as the nature of expression of substance problems and addiction depend on a range of emerging, interactive factors that may vary across individuals and across time). The approach is illustrated with a long-term prospective study of predictors of binge drinking from adolescence to young adulthood and a description of the role of brain processes and mechanisms involved in the development and expression of alcohol use during adolescence.","52":"","53":"This article considers how threats become constituted as problems requiring policy responses, and how one might account for such problematizations and responses. Focusing specifically on the threat from bioterrorism, it draws on a broadly constructivist approach to risk, and highlights how ideas around political rationalities, styles of thought, forms of risk and frameworks of knowledge can be useful in thinking about emerging biosecurity policies. It suggests that a comparative study of Britain and the United States might help to clarify how the threat of bioterrorism is being constructed by various groups, how support for particular 'framings' of the threat is being mobilized and taken up in policy networks, and how this is linked to different courses of action in response to the possibility of bioterrorism.","54":""},"articletitle":{"0":"Device activism and material participation in healthcare: retracing forms of engagement in the #WeAreNotWaiting movement for open-source closed-loop systems in type 1 diabetes self-care.","1":"Value-creation in the health data domain: a typology of what health data help us do.","2":"The life and death of confidentiality: a historical analysis of the flows of patient information.","3":"'We thank you for your sacrifice': Clinical vulnerability, shielding and biosociality in the UK's Covid-19 response.","4":"Legitimate suffering: a case of belonging and sickle cell trait in Brazil.","5":"Race and Biomedicine Beyond the Lab: 21st Century Mobilisations of Genetics-Introduction to the Special Issue.","6":"Entrepreneurial treatment activism for undone science: mannitol and Parkinson's disease.","7":"Reprowebs: a conceptual approach to elasticity and change in the global assisted reproduction industry.","8":"Discipline for pleasure: a new governmentality of HIV prevention.","9":"To wish you well: the biopolitical subjectivities of medical crowdfunders during and after Aotearoa New Zealand's COVID-19 lockdown.","10":"When data drive health: an archaeology of medical records technology.","11":"Adjusting the analytical aperture: propositions for an integrated approach to the social study of reproductive technologies.","12":"\"It's harder for the likes of us\": racially minoritised stem cell donation as ethico-racial imperative.","13":"Molecular sovereignties: patients, genomes, and the enduring biocoloniality of intellectual property.","14":"Deploying nationalist discourses to reduce sex-, gender- and HIV-related stigma in Thailand.","15":"The FDA's standard-making process for medical digital health technologies: co-producing technological and organizational innovation.","16":"The evolution, devolution and distribution of UK Biometric Imaginaries.","17":"Emerging infrastructures: the politics of radium and the validation of radiotherapy in India's first tertiary cancer hospital.","18":"Value regimes and pricing in the pharmaceutical industry: financial capital inflation (hepatitis C) versus innovation and production capital savings for malaria medicines.","19":"For a more-than-human public health.","20":"The coughing body: etiquettes, techniques, sonographies and spaces.","21":"Conceptualising metabolic disorder in Southern Africa: Biology, history and global health.","22":"The paradox of care in behavioral epigenetics: Constructing early-life adversity in the lab.","23":"Markers as mediators: A review and synthesis of epigenetics literature.","24":"Calibrating cancer risk, uncertainty and environments: Genetics and their contexts in southern Brazil.","25":"Performativity and a microbe: Exploring Mycobacterium bovis and the political ecologies of bovine tuberculosis.","26":"Failing, hacking, passing: Autism, entanglement, and the ethics of transformation.","27":"Blood, meat, and upscaling tissue engineering: Promises, anticipated markets, and performativity in the biomedical and agri-food sectors.","28":"\"I don't have to know why it snows, I just have to shovel it!\": Addiction Recovery, Genetic Frameworks, and Biological Citizenship.","29":"A genealogy of epidemiological reason: Saving lives, social surveys and global population.","30":"White opioids: Pharmaceutical race and the war on drugs that wasn't.","31":"When the world catches cold: Thinking with influenza.","32":"The decision: Relations to oneself, authority and vulnerability in the field of selective abortion.","33":"Pharmacogenomics, human genetic diversity and the incorporation and rejection of color\/race in Brazil.","34":"Materiality matters: Blurred boundaries and the domestication of functional foods.","35":"Sensorial pedagogies, hungry fat cells and the limits of nutritional health education.","36":"Feeding sentinels: Logics of care and biosecurity in farms and labs.","37":"Scrutinizing the epigenetics revolution.","38":"Negotiating the dynamics of uncomfortable knowledge: The case of dual use and synthetic biology.","39":"Birds as sentinels for pandemic influenza.","40":"Left to their own devices: Post-ELSI, ethical equipment and the International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Competition.","41":"Health economists, tobacco control and international development: On the economisation of global health beyond neoliberal structural adjustment policies.","42":"Biomarkers, the molecular gaze and the transformation of cancer survivorship.","43":"Whose world? Which health? What security? The facts and fictions of global health security.","44":"Holding blame at bay? 'Gene talk' in family members' accounts of schizophrenia aetiology.","45":"Creating the 'ethics industry': Mary Warnock, in vitro fertilization and the history of bioethics in Britain.","46":"Synthetic biology, security and governance.","47":"Food as exposure: Nutritional epigenetics and the new metabolism.","48":"BRCA patients in Cuba, Greece and Germany: Comparative perspectives on public health, the state and the partial reproduction of 'neoliberal' subjects.","49":null,"50":"The organization of scientists and its relation to scientific productivity: Perceptions of Chinese stem cell researchers.","51":"A Multilevel Developmental Contextual Approach To Substance Use and Addiction.","52":"Contagious Narratives: Towards a Global Epidemiology in Priscilla Wald's Contagious.","53":"Rationality, Risk and Response: A Research Agenda for Biosecurity.","54":"Genomics and a Scientifically Responsible Ethics."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":"","29":"","30":"","31":"","32":"","33":"","34":"","35":"","36":"","37":"","38":"","39":"","40":"","41":"","42":"","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"","47":"","48":"","49":"","50":"","51":"","52":"","53":"","54":""},"journal_title":{"0":"BioSocieties","1":"BioSocieties","2":"BioSocieties","3":"BioSocieties","4":"BioSocieties","5":"BioSocieties","6":"BioSocieties","7":"BioSocieties","8":"BioSocieties","9":"BioSocieties","10":"BioSocieties","11":"BioSocieties","12":"BioSocieties","13":"BioSocieties","14":"BioSocieties","15":"BioSocieties","16":"BioSocieties","17":"BioSocieties","18":"BioSocieties","19":"BioSocieties","20":"BioSocieties","21":"BioSocieties","22":"BioSocieties","23":"BioSocieties","24":"BioSocieties","25":"BioSocieties","26":"BioSocieties","27":"BioSocieties","28":"BioSocieties","29":"BioSocieties","30":"BioSocieties","31":"BioSocieties","32":"BioSocieties","33":"BioSocieties","34":"BioSocieties","35":"BioSocieties","36":"BioSocieties","37":"BioSocieties","38":"BioSocieties","39":"BioSocieties","40":"BioSocieties","41":"BioSocieties","42":"BioSocieties","43":"BioSocieties","44":"BioSocieties","45":"BioSocieties","46":"BioSocieties","47":"BioSocieties","48":"BioSocieties","49":"BioSocieties","50":"BioSocieties","51":"BioSocieties","52":"BioSocieties","53":"BioSocieties","54":"BioSocieties"},"keyword":{"0":"Material participationOpen-sourcePatient activismPatient collectivesPatient innovationType 1 diabetes","1":"Covid-19Data typeHealth dataRegulationValue","2":"ConfidentialityDataficationDigitalizationInformation technologySecrecyZombie categories","3":"COVID-19CoronavirusRiskSubjectivityUKVulnerability","4":"BrazilLegitimacyPatient activismSickle cell disease","5":"","6":null,"7":"Assisted reproductive technologiesGestational surrogacyGlobal reproductive industryMeshworkReproductive travelReprowebs","8":"DisciplineFoucaultHIV\/AIDSPleasurePrEPSecuritySex","9":"COVID-19CareCrowdfundingDeservingnessHealthNarrativeSubjectivity","10":"Data systemsFormatsInformation technologyMedia archaeologyMedical recordsPhilosophical archaeology","11":"GenderInterdisciplinarityLife courseReproductive justiceReproductive technologies","12":"Bone marrowDonationKinshipRaceRelatednessSTSStem cells","13":"Access and benefit sharing agreementsBiocolonialityIntellectual propertyMonoclonal antibodiesSovereignty","14":"GenderHIVHealthNationalismSexualityThailand","15":"Digital healthFDALifestyleMedical boundaryRegulatory scienceStandard-making","16":"Biometric dataForensic sciencePolicySociotechnical imaginaries","17":"History of cancerHistory of medicineHistory of radiumIndiaNationalismPhilanthro-capitalismPost-colonial science and medicine","18":"Financial capitalHumanitarian valuesPricingValue regimes","19":"","20":"Body boundariesCoughing etiquettesRespiratory infectionsSocial distancing","21":"AfricaEpidemiologic transitionMalawiMetabolic disorderNon-communicable disease","22":"behavioral epigeneticscareearly-life adversityfeminist science studiesknowledge productionlaboratory ethnography","23":"environmentepigeneticsnarrativereview","24":"","25":"BacteriumBovine tuberculosisMicrobial ethnographyPerformativityPolitical ecology of healthVeterinary science","26":"Karen BaradMichel Foucaultautismcognitive psychologyethics of transformationuncertainty","27":"anticipated marketscultured bloodcultured meatin vitro meatpromisetissue engineering","28":"AddictionAlcohol\/alcoholismBehavioral geneticsSubstance use","29":"biopoliticsepidemiologyglobal healthmetricssaving livessocial survey","30":"addictionheroinprescription opioidswhiteness","31":"","32":"abortion decisionauthorityprenatal diagnosisselective abortionstate of emergencyvulnerability","33":"Brazilanthropology of sciencecolor\/racehealth policypharmacogenomicsrace mixture","34":"cholesterolfunctional foodmaterialitypracticesscript","35":"Franceendocrinologyfeedbackhealth educationobesitysensorial","36":"Avian Flubiosecurityfood safetyimmunitymetabolismsentinels","37":"epigeneticsimaginariesmolecularizationplasticityresponsibilitysocial policy","38":"biosecuritydual useinnovationscience and technology studies (STS)strategic ignorancesynthetic biology","39":"","40":"collaborationhuman practicesiGEMinterdisciplinaritypost-ELSIsynthetic biology","41":"(health) economicsglobal healthneo-liberalismstructural adjustmenttaxationtobacco control","42":"cancermolecular biomarkersmolecular gazerisksubjectivitytertiary prevention","43":"","44":"","45":"","46":"biological weaponsbioterrorismgene synthesisgovernanceregulationrisk","47":"","48":"BRCACubaGermanyGreeceneoliberal subjectivitypatienthood","49":"","50":"Chinese bioscienceresearch efficiencystem cellsteam structure","51":"","52":"","53":"biosecuritybioterrorismpolitical rationalitiesriskthought communities","54":""},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng","6":"eng","7":"eng","8":"eng","9":"eng","10":"eng","11":"eng","12":"eng","13":"eng","14":"eng","15":"eng","16":"eng","17":"eng","18":"eng","19":"eng","20":"eng","21":"eng","22":"eng","23":"eng","24":"eng","25":"eng","26":"eng","27":"eng","28":"eng","29":"eng","30":"eng","31":"eng","32":"eng","33":"eng","34":"eng","35":"eng","36":"eng","37":"eng","38":"eng","39":"eng","40":"eng","41":"eng","42":"eng","43":"eng","44":"eng","45":"eng","46":"eng","47":"eng","48":"eng","49":"eng","50":"eng","51":"eng","52":"eng","53":"eng","54":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":35474758,"1":35432575,"2":35126615,"3":35096124,"4":34721651,"5":34721650,"6":34721649,"7":34659442,"8":34608399,"9":34567234,"10":34512794,"11":34426746,"12":34276806,"13":34249139,"14":34226831,"15":34002115,"16":33968156,"17":33688371,"18":33456494,"19":33101450,"20":32952594,"21":31976006,"22":31156717,"23":31105763,"24":30976288,"25":32226469,"26":30166991,"27":34249140,"28":29552089,"29":32802144,"30":28690668,"31":32226468,"32":26345395,"33":26290677,"34":26157471,"35":26157470,"36":32226467,"37":25484911,"38":25484910,"39":32226473,"40":24159360,"41":23750175,"42":23750174,"43":32226472,"44":23227107,"45":22563348,"46":32226471,"47":23227106,"48":32099577,"49":25685173,"50":24143153,"51":22754585,"52":32226470,"53":32226466,"54":32226465},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2022,"2":2022,"3":2022,"4":2021,"5":2021,"6":2021,"7":2021,"8":2021,"9":2021,"10":2021,"11":2021,"12":2021,"13":2021,"14":2021,"15":2021,"16":2021,"17":2021,"18":2021,"19":2020,"20":2021,"21":2019,"22":2018,"23":2019,"24":2018,"25":2019,"26":2017,"27":2018,"28":2017,"29":2018,"30":2017,"31":2016,"32":2015,"33":2015,"34":2015,"35":2015,"36":2015,"37":2014,"38":2014,"39":2014,"40":2013,"41":2013,"42":2013,"43":2013,"44":2012,"45":2011,"46":2012,"47":2011,"48":2010,"49":2010,"50":2010,"51":2010,"52":2009,"53":2006,"54":2006}}