{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5},"abstracttext":{"0":"Thirteen new species are formally described: Cortinarius brunneocarpus from Pakistan, C. lilacinoarmillatus from India, Curvularia khuzestanica on Atriplex lentiformis from Iran, Gloeocantharellus neoechinosporus from China, Laboulbenia bernaliana on species of Apenes, Apristus, and Philophuga (Coleoptera, Carabidae) from Nicaragua and Panama, L. oioveliicola on Oiovelia machadoi (Hemiptera, Veliidae) from Brazil, L. termiticola on Macrotermes subhyalinus (Blattodea, Termitidae) from the DR Congo, Pluteus cutefractus from Slovenia, Rhizoglomus variabile from Peru, Russula phloginea from China, Stagonosporopsis flacciduvarum on Vitis vinifera from Italy, Strobilomyces huangshanensis from China, Uromyces klotzschianus on Rumex dentatus subsp. klotzschianus from Pakistan. The following new records are reported: Alternaria calendulae on Calendula officinalis from India; A. tenuissima on apple and quince fruits from Iran; Candelariella oleaginescens from Turkey; Didymella americana and D. calidophila on Vitis vinifera from Italy; Lasiodiplodia theobromae causing tip blight of Dianella tasmanica 'variegata' from India; Marasmiellus subpruinosus from Madeira, Portugal, new for Macaronesia and Africa; Mycena albidolilacea, M. tenuispinosa, and M. xantholeuca from Russia; Neonectria neomacrospora on Madhuca longifolia from India; Nothophoma quercina on Vitis vinifera from Italy; Plagiosphaera immersa on Urtica dioica from Austria; Rinodina sicula from Turkey; Sphaerosporium lignatile from Wisconsin, USA; and Verrucaria murina from Turkey. Multi-locus analysis of ITS, LSU, rpb1, tef1 sequences revealed that P. immersa, commonly classified within Gnomoniaceae (Diaporthales) or as Sordariomycetes incertae sedis, belongs to Magnaporthaceae (Magnaporthales). Analysis of a six-locus Ascomycota-wide dataset including SSU and LSU sequences of S. lignatile revealed that this species, currently in Ascomycota incertae sedis, belongs to Pyronemataceae (Pezizomycetes, Pezizales).","1":"Two new species of Pleosporales, Anteaglonium rubescens (Anteagloniaceae) and Atrocalyx asturiensis (Lophiotremataceae), are described. Phylogenetic placement was determined by combined analyses of a DNA data matrix containing ITS, LSU, SSU, rpb2, and tef1. Anteaglonium rubescens is a stromatic fungus characterized by brown didymospores disarticulating within asci, and by the production of a red-orange to pink pigment produced in nature and in artificial culture. Atrocalyx asturiensis has massive ascomatal crests and brown phragmospores.","2":"For the first time, molecular phylogenetic data on the peculiar diaporthalean genus Caudospora are available. Macro- and microscopic morphology and phylogenetic multilocus analyses of partial nuc SSU-ITS-LSU rDNA, cal, ms204, rpb1, rpb2, tef1 and tub2 sequences revealed two distinct species of Caudospora, which are described and illustrated by light and scanning electron microscopy. Caudospora iranica is described as a new species from corticated dead twigs of Quercus sp. collected in Iran. It differs from the generic type, C. taleola, mainly by coarsely verrucose ascospores. The asexual morph of C. taleola on natural substrate is described and illustrated. Caudospora taleola is neotypified, and it is recorded from Iran for the first time. Phylogenetic analyses of a multigene matrix containing a representative selection of Diaporthales from four loci (ITS, LSU rDNA, rpb2 and tef1) revealed a placement of Caudospora within Sydowiellaceae.","3":"The present study introduces seven new species, one new combination, one new variety and several interesting taxonomical notes and\/or geographical records. Most of the new taxa are Ascomycetes, but the study also includes a new variety of a Basidiomycete. Novel species include Gyromitra khanspurensis (Discinaceae, Pezizales, Pezizomycetes) from Pakistan growing near Cedrus deoadara and Paramyrothecium guiyangense and Paramyrothecium verruridum (Stachybotriaceae, Hypocreales, Sordariomycetes) both isolated from soil in China. New species from South Africa are Sclerostagonospora elegiae on culm litter of Elegia equisetacea, Sclerostagonospora fusiformis on culm litter of Thamnochortus spicigerus, Sclerostagonospora pinguis on culm litter of Cannomois virgata and Sclerostagonospora sulcata on culm litter of Ischyrolepis subverticellata (Phaeosphaeriaceae, Pleosporales, Dothideomycetes). Hapalocystis berkeleyi var. kickxii with its basionym Hypoxylon kickxii is shown to be a taxon on species level and thus recombined as Hapalocystis kickxii (Sydowiellaceae, Diaporthales, Sordariomycetes), and it is lecto- and epitypified. The new variety Pluteus romellii var. luteoalbus (Pluteaceae, Agaricales, Agaricomycetes) growing on a mossy fallen stem of a deciduous tree is described from Czech Republic. Cortinarius scaurocaninus (Cortinariaceae, Agaricales, Agaricomycetes) is new for Austria, Humicola grisea (Chaetomiaceae, Sordariales, Sordariomycetes) is an interesting new record for Chile. Two taxa are reported as new for Turkey: the lichenicolous fungus Opegrapha parasitica (Opegraphaceae, Arthoniales, Arthoniomycetes) growing partly immersed in the thallus of Aspicilia and the lichen Rinodina zwackhiana (Physciaceae, Teloschistales, Lecanoromycetes) from calcareous rock. Finally, Xerula strigosa (Physalacriaceae, Agaricales, Agaricomycetes), described from China, is confirmed to be present also in Pakistan.","4":"Stigmatodiscus pruni (Stigmatodiscaceae, Stigmatodiscales) is described and illustrated from corticated dead twigs of Prunus spinosa collected in Austria and France. It is characterised by hysteriform ascomata with two lateral black lips, which are erumpent through the periderm of the host, and a black disc in combination with two-celled, asymmetric brown verruculose ascospores with a distinct sheath. Phylogenetic analyses of a multigene matrix containing a representative selection of Dothideomycetes from four genes (nuc 18S rDNA, nuc 28S rDNA, rpb2 and tef1) revealed a highly supported placement within Stigmatodiscales as sister species to Stigmatodiscus enigmaticus. Micromorphology of the sexual and asexual morph matches the genus Stigmatodiscus, except for the hysteriform shape of the ascomata and the two-celled ascospores.","5":"Based on phylogenetic analyses of an ITS-LSU-SSU-rpb2-tef1 sequence data matrix three taxa once classified in Cucurbitaria are referred to the Melanommataceae. Cucurbitaria rhododendri, also known as Melanomma rhododendri, is not congeneric with the generic type of Melanomma, M. pulvis-pyrius and thus classified in the new genus Alpinaria. Cucurbitaria piceae, known as Gemmamyces piceae, the cause of the Gemmamyces bud blight of Picea spp., belongs also to the Melanommataceae. The name Gemmamyces is conserved. For Cucurbitaria obducens, also known as Teichospora obducens, the new genus Praetumpfia is described, as it cannot be accommodated in any known genus. All species are redescribed and epitypified. Based on sequence data and morphology, Blastostroma, Mycodidymella and Xenostigmina are synonyms of Petrakia. The genus Petrakia is emended. We also provide sequences of additional markers for Beverwykella pulmonaria, Melanomma pulvis-pyrius, Petrakia echinata and Pseudotrichia mutabilis."},"articletitle":{"0":"Fungal Systematics and Evolution: FUSE 5.","1":"Two unusual new species of Pleosporales: Anteaglonium rubescens and Atrocalyx asturiensis.","2":"Molecular phylogeny and a new Iranian species of Caudospora (Sydowiellaceae, Diaporthales).","3":"Fungal Systematics and Evolution: FUSE 3.","4":"Stigmatodiscus pruni, a new dothideomycete with hysteriform ascomata.","5":"Three former taxa of Cucurbitaria and considerations on Petrakia in the Melanommataceae."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Sydowia","1":"Sydowia","2":"Sydowia","3":"Sydowia","4":"Sydowia","5":"Sydowia"},"keyword":{"0":"13 new species16 new recordsAgaricomycetesDothideomycetesGlomeromycotaLaboulbeniomycetesMagnaporthaceaePezizomycetesPucciniomycetesPyronemataceaeSordariomycetesintegrative taxonomy","1":"AnteagloniaceaeDothideomycetesHysterodifractumLophiotremataceaeOhleriaXenolophiumhysteriaceous fungiphylogenetic analysispyrenomycetes","2":"AscomycotaDiaporthalesSydowiellaceaenew speciesphylogenetic analysistaxonomy","3":"ITS barcodesbiodiversityphylogenysystematics","4":"AscomycotaDothideomycetesStigmatodiscaceaeStigmatodiscalesnew speciesphylogenetic analysistaxonomy","5":"AscomycotaGibberideaMegaloseptoriaPleosporalesphylogenetic analysispyrenomycetes"},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":31975743,"1":30774163,"2":29795960,"3":29386695,"4":29386694,"5":29104325},"pubdate_year":{"0":2019,"1":2018,"2":2018,"3":2017,"4":2017,"5":2017}}