{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4,"5":5,"6":6,"7":7,"8":8,"9":9,"10":10,"11":11,"12":12,"13":13,"14":14,"15":15,"16":16,"17":17,"18":18,"19":19,"20":20,"21":21,"22":22,"23":23,"24":24,"25":25,"26":26,"27":27,"28":28},"abstracttext":{"0":"Scientific novelty drives the efforts to invent new vaccines and solutions during the pandemic. First-time collaboration and international collaboration are two pivotal channels to expand teams' search activities for a broader scope of resources required to address the global challenge, which might facilitate the generation of novel ideas. Our analysis of 98,981 coronavirus papers suggests that scientific novelty measured by the BioBERT model that is pretrained on 29 million PubMed articles, and first-time collaboration increased after the outbreak of COVID-19, and international collaboration witnessed a sudden decrease. During COVID-19, papers with more first-time collaboration were found to be more novel and international collaboration did not hamper novelty as it had done in the normal periods. The findings suggest the necessity of reaching out for distant resources and the importance of maintaining a collaborative scientific community beyond nationalism during a pandemic.","1":"Analyzing and documenting human information behaviors in the context of global public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic are critical to informing crisis management. Drawing on the Elaboration Likelihood Model, this study investigates how three types of peripheral cues-content richness, emotional valence, and communication topic-are associated with COVID-19 information sharing on Twitter. We used computational methods, combining Latent Dirichlet Allocation topic modeling with psycholinguistic indicators obtained from the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count dictionary to measure these concepts and built a research model to assess their effects on information sharing. Results showed that content richness was negatively associated with information sharing. Tweets with negative emotions received more user engagement, whereas tweets with positive emotions were less likely to be disseminated. Further, tweets mentioning advisories tended to receive more retweets than those mentioning support and news updates. More importantly, emotional valence moderated the relationship between communication topics and information sharing-tweets discussing news updates and support conveying positive sentiments led to more information sharing; tweets mentioning the impact of COVID-19 with negative emotions triggered more sharing. Finally, theoretical and practical implications of this study are discussed in the context of global public health communication.","2":"The spread of misinformation on social media has become a major societal issue during recent years. In this work, we used the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic as a case study to systematically investigate factors associated with the spread of multi-topic misinformation related to one event on social media based on the heuristic-systematic model. Among factors related to systematic processing of information, we discovered that the topics of a misinformation story matter, with conspiracy theories being the most likely to be retweeted. As for factors related to heuristic processing of information, such as when citizens look up to their leaders during such a crisis, our results demonstrated that behaviors of a political leader, former US President Donald J. Trump, may have nudged people's sharing of COVID-19 misinformation. Outcomes of this study help social media platform and users better understand and prevent the spread of misinformation on social media.","3":"This paper examines how shared affiliations within an institution (e.g., same primary appointment, same secondary appointment, same research center, same laboratory\/facility) and physical proximity (e.g., walking distance between collaborator offices) shape knowledge creation through biomedical science collaboration in general, and interdisciplinary collaboration in particular. Using archival and publication data, we examine pairwise research collaborations among 1,138 faculty members over a 12-year period at a medical school in the United States. Modeling at the dyadic level, we find that faculty members with more shared institutional affiliations are positively associated with knowledge creation and knowledge impact, and that this association is moderated by the physical proximity of collaborators. We further find that the positive influence of disciplinary diversity (e.g., collaborators from different fields) on knowledge impact is stronger among pairs that share more affiliations and is significantly reduced as the physical distance among collaborators increases. These results support the idea that shared institutional affiliations and physical proximity can increase interpersonal contact, providing more opportunities to develop trust and mutual understanding, and thus alleviating some of the coordination issues that can arise with higher disciplinary diversity. We discuss the implications for future research on scientific collaborations, managerial practice regarding office space allocation, and strategic planning of initiatives aimed at promoting interdisciplinary collaboration.","4":"Fake news is considered one of the main threats of our society. The aim of fake news is usually to confuse readers and trigger intense emotions to them in an attempt to be spread through social networks. Even though recent studies have explored the effectiveness of different linguistic patterns for fake news detection, the role of emotional signals has not yet been explored. In this paper, we focus on extracting emotional signals from claims and evaluating their effectiveness on credibility assessment. First, we explore different methodologies for extracting the emotional signals that can be triggered to the users when they read a claim. Then, we present emoCred, a model that is based on a long-short term memory model that incorporates emotional signals extracted from the text of the claims to differentiate between credible and non-credible ones. In addition, we perform an analysis to understand which emotional signals and which terms are the most useful for the different credibility classes. We conduct extensive experiments and a thorough analysis on real-world datasets. Our results indicate the importance of incorporating emotional signals in the credibility assessment problem.","5":"In several author name disambiguation studies, some ethnic name groups such as East Asian names are reported to be more difficult to disambiguate than others. This implies that disambiguation approaches might be improved if ethnic name groups are distinguished before disambiguation. We explore the potential of ethnic name partitioning by comparing performance of four machine learning algorithms trained and tested on the entire data or specifically on individual name groups. Results show that ethnicity-based name partitioning can substantially improve disambiguation performance because the individual models are better suited for their respective name group. The improvements occur across all ethnic name groups with different magnitudes. Performance gains in predicting matched name pairs outweigh losses in predicting nonmatched pairs. Feature (e.g., coauthor name) similarities of name pairs vary across ethnic name groups. Such differences may enable the development of ethnicity-specific feature weights to improve prediction for specific ethic name categories. These findings are observed for three labeled data with a natural distribution of problem sizes as well as one in which all ethnic name groups are controlled for the same sizes of ambiguous names. This study is expected to motive scholars to group author names based on ethnicity prior to disambiguation.","6":"This study examines the documents circulated among biomedical equipment repair technicians in order to build a conceptual model that accounts for multilayered temporality in technical healthcare professional communities. A metadata analysis informed by digital forensics and trace ethnography is employed to model the overlapping temporal, format-related, and annotation characteristics present in a corpus of repair manual files crowdsourced during collaborations between volunteer archivists and professional technicians. The corpus originates within iFixit.com's Medical Device Repair collection, a trove of more than 10,000 manuals contributed by working technicians in response to the strain placed on their colleagues and institutions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The study focuses in particular on the Respiratory Analyzer subcategory of documents, which aid in the maintenance of equipment central to the care of COVID-19 patients experiencing respiratory symptoms. The 40 Respiratory Analyzer manuals in iFixit's collection are examined in terms of their original publication date, the apparent status of their original paper copies, the version of PDF used to encode them, and any additional metadata that is present. Based on these characteristics, the study advances a conceptual model accounting for circulation among multiple technicians, as well as alteration of documents during the course of their lifespans.","7":"This study considers commons-based peer production (CBPP) by examining the organizational processes of the free\/libre open-source software community, Drupal. It does so by exploring the sociotechnical systems that have emerged around both Drupal's development and its face-to-face communitarian events. There has been criticism of the simplistic nature of previous research into free software; this study addresses this by linking studies of CBPP with a qualitative study of Drupal's organizational processes. It focuses on the evolution of organizational structures, identifying the intertwined dynamics of formalization and decentralization, resulting in coexisting sociotechnical systems that vary in their degrees of organicity.","8":"The recognition of named entities in Spanish medieval texts presents great complexity, involving specific challenges: First, the complex morphosyntactic characteristics in proper-noun use in medieval texts. Second, the lack of strict orthographic standards. Finally, diachronic and geographical variations in Spanish from the 12th to 15th century. In this period, named entities usually appear as complex text structure. For example, it was frequent to add nicknames and information about the persons role in society and geographic origin. To tackle this complexity, named entity recognition and classification system has been implemented. The system uses contextual cues based on semantics to detect entities and assign a type. Given the occurrence of entities with attached attributes, entity contexts are also parsed to determine entity-type-specific dependencies for these attributes. Moreover, it uses a variant generator to handle the diachronic evolution of Spanish medieval terms from a phonetic and morphosyntactic viewpoint. The tool iteratively enriches its proper lexica, dictionaries, and gazetteers. The system was evaluated on a corpus of over 3,000 manually annotated entities of different types and periods, obtaining F1 scores between 0.74 and 0.87. Attribute annotation was evaluated for a person and role name attributes with an overall F1 of 0.75.","9":"We investigate the state of multilingualism across the social sciences and humanities (SSH) using a comprehensive data set of research outputs from seven European countries (Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Flanders [Belgium], Norway, Poland, and Slovenia). Although English tends to be the dominant language of science, SSH researchers often produce culturally and societally relevant work in their local languages. We collected and analyzed a set of 164,218 peer-reviewed journal articles (produced by 51,063 researchers from 2013 to 2015) and found that multilingualism is prevalent despite geographical location and field. Among the researchers who published at least three journal articles during this time period, over one-third from the various countries had written their work in at least two languages. The highest share of researchers who published in only one language were from Flanders (80.9%), whereas the lowest shares were from Slovenia (57.2%) and Poland (59.3%). Our findings show that multilingual publishing is an ongoing practice in many SSH research fields regardless of geographical location, political situation, and\/or historical heritage. Here we argue that research is international, but multilingual publishing keeps locally relevant research alive with the added potential for creating impact.","10":"Data protection laws, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, regulate aspects of online personalization. However, the data protection lens is too narrow to analyze personalization. To define conditions for personalization, we should understand data protection in its larger fundamental rights context, starting with the closely connected right to privacy. If the right to privacy is considered along with other European fundamental rights that protect information and communication flows, namely, communications confidentiality; the right to receive information; and freedom of expression, opinion, and thought, these rights are observed to enable what I call a \"personal information sphere\" for each person. This notion highlights how privacy interferences affect other fundamental rights. The personal information sphere is grounded in European case law and is thus not just an academic affair. The essence of the personal information sphere is control, yet with a different meaning than mere control as guaranteed by data protection law. The personal information sphere is about people controlling how they situate themselves in information and communication networks. It follows that, to respect privacy and related rights, online personalization providers should actively involve users in the personalization process and enable them to use personalization for personal goals.","11":"In this opinion paper, we argue that global health crises are also information crises. Using as an example the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic, we (a) examine challenges associated with what we term \"global information crises\"; (b) recommend changes needed for the field of information science to play a leading role in such crises; and (c) propose actionable items for short- and long-term research, education, and practice in information science.","12":"Information behavior may enhance hypertension self-management in African-Americans. The goal of this substudy was to examine relationships between measures of self-reported health information behavior and neural measures of health information processing in a sample of 19 prehypertensive African-Americans (mean age=52.5, 52.6% women). We measured 1) health information seeking, sharing, and use (surveys) and 2) neural activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to assess response to health information videos. We hypothesized that differential activation (comparison of analytic vs. empathic brain activity when watching a specific type of video) would indicate better function in three, distinct cognitive domains: 1) Analytic Network, 2) Default Mode Network (DMN), and 3) ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC). Scores on the information sharing measure (but not seeking or use) were positively associated with differential activation in the vmPFC (rs=.53, p=.02) and the DMN (rs=.43, p=.06). Our findings correspond with previous work indicating that activation of the DMN and vmPFC is associated with sharing information to persuade others, and with behavior change. Although health information is commonly conveyed as detached and analytic in nature, our findings suggest that neural processing of socially and emotionally salient health information is more closely associated with health information sharing.","13":"The use of implicit relevance feedback from neurophysiology could deliver effortless information retrieval. However, both computing neurophysiologic responses and retrieving documents are characterized by uncertainty because of noisy signals and incomplete or inconsistent representations of the data. We present the first-of-its-kind, fully integrated information retrieval system that makes use of online implicit relevance feedback generated from brain activity as measured through electroencephalography (EEG), and eye movements. The findings of the evaluation experiment (N = 16) show that we are able to compute online neurophysiology-based relevance feedback with performance significantly better than chance in complex data domains and realistic search tasks. We contribute by demonstrating how to integrate in interactive intent modeling this inherently noisy implicit relevance feedback combined with scarce explicit feedback. Although experimental measures of task performance did not allow us to demonstrate how the classification outcomes translated into search task performance, the experiment proved that our approach is able to generate relevance feedback from brain signals and eye movements in a realistic scenario, thus providing promising implications for future work in neuroadaptive information retrieval (IR).","14":"Open-access mega-journals (OAMJs) are characterized by their large scale, wide scope, open-access (OA) business model, and \"soundness-only\" peer review. The last of these controversially discounts the novelty, significance, and relevance of submitted articles and assesses only their \"soundness.\" This article reports the results of an international survey of authors (n = 11,883), comparing the responses of OAMJ authors with those of other OA and subscription journals, and drawing comparisons between different OAMJs. Strikingly, OAMJ authors showed a low understanding of soundness-only peer review: two-thirds believed OAMJs took into account novelty, significance, and relevance, although there were marked geographical variations. Author satisfaction with OAMJs, however, was high, with more than 80% of OAMJ authors saying they would publish again in the same journal, although there were variations by title, and levels were slightly lower than subscription journals (over 90%). Their reasons for choosing to publish in OAMJs included a wide variety of factors, not significantly different from reasons given by authors of other journals, with the most important including the quality of the journal and quality of peer review. About half of OAMJ articles had been submitted elsewhere before submission to the OAMJ with some evidence of a \"cascade\" of articles between journals from the same publisher.","15":"This research article puts forward a method to identify the national heritage of authors based on the morphology of their surnames. Most studies in the field use variants of dictionary-based surname methods to identify ethnic communities, an approach that suffers from methodological limitations. Using the public file of ORCID (Open Researcher and Contributor ID) identifiers in 2015, we developed a surname-based identification method and applied it to infer Russian heritage from suffix-based morphological regularities. The method was developed conceptually and tested in an undersampled control set. Identification based on surname morphology was then complemented by using first-name data to eliminate false-positive results. The method achieved 98% precision and 94% recall rates-superior to most other methods that use name data. The procedure can be adapted to identify the heritage of a variety of national groups with morphologically regular naming traditions. We elaborate on how the method can be employed to overcome long-standing limitations of using name data in bibliometric datasets. This identification method can contribute to advancing research in scientific mobility and migration, patenting by certain groups, publishing and collaboration, transnational and scientific diaspora links, and the effects of diversity on the innovative performance of organizations, regions, and countries.","16":"A cross-disciplinary examination of the user behaviors involved in seeking and evaluating data is surprisingly absent from the research data discussion. This review explores the data retrieval literature to identify commonalities in how users search for and evaluate observational research data in selected disciplines. Two analytical frameworks, rooted in information retrieval and science and technology studies, are used to identify key similarities in practices as a first step toward developing a model describing data retrieval.","17":"In the Introduction to this special issue on the Social Informatics of Knowledge, the editors of the issue reflect on the history of the term \"social informatics\" and how the articles in this issue both reflect and depart from the original concept. We examine how social informatics researchers have studied knowledge, computerization, and the workplace, and how all of those have evolved over time. We describe the process by which articles were included, how they help us understand the field of social informatics scholarship today, and reflect briefly on what the future of the field holds.","18":"Human spatial concepts, such as the concept of place, are not immediately translatable to the geometric foundations of spatial databases and information systems developed over the past 50 years. These systems typically rest on the concepts of objects and fields, both bound to coordinates, as two general paradigms of geographic representation. The match between notions of place occurring in everyday where questions and the data available to answer such questions is unclear and hinders progress in place-based information systems. This is particularly true in novel application areas such as the Digital Humanities or speech-based human-computer interaction, but also for location-based services. Although this shortcoming has been observed before, we approach the challenges of relating places to information system representations with a fresh view, based on a set of core concepts of spatial information. These concepts have been proposed in information science with the intent of serving human-machine spatial question asking and answering. Clarifying the relationship of the notion of place to these concepts is a significant step toward geographically intelligent systems. The main result of the article is a demonstration that the notion of place fits existing concepts of spatial information, when these are adequately exploited and combined.","19":"The Internet has become the first source of consumer health information. Most theoretical and empirical studies are centered on information needs and seeking, rather than on information outcomes. This review's purpose is to explore and explain health outcomes of Online Consumer Health Information (OCHI) in primary care. A participatory systematic mixed studies review with a framework synthesis was undertaken. Starting from an initial conceptual framework, our specific objectives were to (a) identify types of OCHI outcomes in primary care, (b) identify factors associated with these outcomes, and (c) integrate these factors and outcomes into a comprehensive revised framework combining an information theory and a psychosocial theory of behavior. The results of 65 included studies were synthesized using a qualitative thematic data analysis. The themes derived from the literature underwent a harmonization process that produced a comprehensive typology of OCHI outcomes. The revised conceptual framework specifies four individual and one organizational level of OCHI outcomes, while including factors such as consumers' information needs and four interdependent contextual factors. It contributes to theoretical knowledge about OCHI health outcomes, and informs future research, information assessment methods, and tools to help consumers find and use health information.","20":"Word segmentation is the task of inserting or deleting word boundary characters in order to separate character sequences that correspond to words in some language. In this article we propose an approach based on a beam search algorithm and a language model working at the byte\/character level, the latter component implemented either as an n-gram model or a recurrent neural network. The resulting system analyzes the text input with no word boundaries one token at a time, which can be a character or a byte, and uses the information gathered by the language model to determine if a boundary must be placed in the current position or not. Our aim is to use this system in a preprocessing step for a microtext normalization system. This means that it needs to effectively cope with the data sparsity present on this kind of texts. We also strove to surpass the performance of two readily available word segmentation systems: The well-known and accessible Word Breaker by Microsoft, and the Python module WordSegment by Grant Jenks. The results show that we have met our objectives, and we hope to continue to improve both the precision and the efficiency of our system in the future.","21":"A recent publication in Nature reports that public R&amp;D funding is only weakly correlated with the citation impact of a nation's articles as measured by the field-weighted citation index (FWCI; defined by Scopus). On the basis of the supplementary data, we up-scaled the design using Web of Science data for the decade 2003-2013 and OECD funding data for the corresponding decade assuming a 2-year delay (2001-2011). Using negative binomial regression analysis, we found very small coefficients, but the effects of international collaboration are positive and statistically significant, whereas the effects of government funding are negative, an order of magnitude smaller, and statistically nonsignificant (in two of three analyses). In other words, international collaboration improves the impact of research articles, whereas more government funding tends to have a small adverse effect when comparing OECD countries.","22":"Nearly half of African-American women have hypertension, which increases their risk for cardiovascular disease and stroke. A plethora of consumer health information products and services exist to inform people with hypertension and to promote self-management among them. Promotion of information sharing by African-American women represents a promising, culturally-applicable strategy for consumer health information services focused on hypertension self-management. Yet, how African-American women share hypertension information with others is unclear. The purpose of this qualitative, descriptive study was to examine practices of information sharing in African-American women with hypertension. Thirteen women (mean age = 73, SD = 9.87) participated in one of two focus groups held at an urban community health center. Thematic analysis revealed that the women shared information about how they self-managed their blood pressure 1) with female family members and friends, 2) about ways in which they adapted self-management strategies to work for them, 3) mostly in group settings, and 4) because they wanted to prevent others from suffering and reinforce their own knowledge about hypertension self-management. New findings emerged regarding assessing \"readiness\" for information. Study findings will be used to inform the design of an information sharing intervention to support self-management of hypertension in African-American women.","23":"Text simplification often relies on dated, unproven readability formulas. As an alternative and motivated by the success of term familiarity, we test a complementary measure: grammar familiarity. Grammar familiarity is measured as the frequency of the 3rd level sentence parse tree and is useful for evaluating individual sentences. We created a database of 140K unique 3rd level parse structures by parsing and binning all 5.4M sentences in English Wikipedia. We then calculated the grammar frequencies across the corpus and created 11 frequency bins. We evaluate the measure with a user study and corpus analysis. For the user study, we selected 20 sentences randomly from each bin, controlling for sentence length and term frequency, and recruited 30 readers per sentence (N=6,600) on Amazon Mechanical Turk. We measured actual difficulty (comprehension) using a Cloze test, perceived difficulty using a 5-point Likert scale, and time taken. Sentences with more frequent grammatical structures, even with very different surface presentations, were easier to understand, perceived as easier and took less time to read. Outcomes from readability formulas correlated with perceived but not with actual difficulty. Our corpus analysis shows how the metric can be used to understand grammar regularity in a broad range of corpora.","24":"We investigated a topic-based navigation guidance system in the World Health Organization portal, compared the link connection network and the semantic connection network derived from the guidance system, analyzed the characteristics of the 2 networks from the perspective of the node centrality (in_closeness, out_closeness, betweenness, in_degree, and out_degree), and provided the suggestions to optimize and enhance the topic-based navigation guidance system. A mixed research method that combines the social network analysis method, clustering analysis method, and inferential analysis methods was used. The clustering analysis results of the link connection network were quite different from those of the semantic connection network. There were significant differences between the link connection network and the semantic network in terms of density and centrality. Inferential analysis results show that there were no strong correlations between the centrality of a node and its topic information characteristics. Suggestions for enhancing the navigation guidance system are discussed in detail. Future research directions, such as application of the same research method presented in this study to other similar public health portals, are also included.","25":"We analyze access statistics of 150 blog entries and news articles for periods of up to 3 years. Access rate falls as an inverse power of time passed since publication. The power law holds for periods of up to 1,000 days. The exponents are different for different blogs and are distributed between 0.6 and 3.2. We argue that the decay of attention to a web article is caused by the link to it first dropping down the list of links on the website's front page and then disappearing from the front page and its subsequent movement further into background. The other proposed explanations that use a decaying with time novelty factor, or some intricate theory of human dynamics, cannot explain all of the experimental observations.","26":"Patient portals have the potential to provide content that is specifically tailored to a patient's information needs based on diagnoses and other factors. In this work, we conducted a survey of 41 lung cancer patients at an outpatient lung cancer clinic at the medical center of the University of California Los Angeles, to gain insight into these perceived information needs and opinions on the design of a portal to fulfill them. We found that patients requested access to information related to diagnosis and imaging, with more than half of the patients reporting that they did not anticipate an increase in anxiety due to access to medical record information via a portal. We also found that patient educational background did not lead to a significant difference in desires for explanations of reports and definitions of terms.","27":"Health research shows that knowing about health risks may not translate into behavior change. However, such research typically operationalizes health information acquisition with knowledge tests. Information scientists who investigate socially embedded information behaviors could help improve understanding of potential associations between information behavior-as opposed to knowledge-and health behavior formation, thus providing new opportunities to investigate the effects of health information. We examine the associations between information behavior and HIV testing intentions among young men who have sex with men (YMSM), a group with high rates of unrecognized HIV infection. We used the theory of planned behavior (TPB) to predict intentions to seek HIV testing in an online sample of 163 YMSM. Multiple regression and recursive path analysis were used to test two models: (a) the basic TPB model and (b) an adapted model that added the direct effects of three information behaviors (information exposure, use of information to make HIV-testing decisions, prior experience obtaining an HIV test) plus self-rated HIV knowledge. As hypothesized, our adapted model improved predictions, explaining more than twice as much variance as the original TPB model. The results suggest that information behaviors may be more important predictors of health behavior intentions than previously acknowledged.","28":"Log analysis shows that PubMed users frequently use author names in queries for retrieving scientific literature. However, author name ambiguity may lead to irrelevant retrieval results. To improve the PubMed user experience with author name queries, we designed an author name disambiguation system consisting of similarity estimation and agglomerative clustering. A machine-learning method was employed to score the features for disambiguating a pair of papers with ambiguous names. These features enable the computation of pairwise similarity scores to estimate the probability of a pair of papers belonging to the same author, which drives an agglomerative clustering algorithm regulated by 2 factors: name compatibility and probability level. With transitivity violation correction, high precision author clustering is achieved by focusing on minimizing false-positive pairing. Disambiguation performance is evaluated with manual verification of random samples of pairs from clustering results. When compared with a state-of-the-art system, our evaluation shows that among all the pairs the lumping error rate drops from 10.1% to 2.2% for our system, while the splitting error rises from 1.8% to 7.7%. This results in an overall error rate of 9.9%, compared with 11.9% for the state-of-the-art method. Other evaluations based on gold standard data also show the increase in accuracy of our clustering. We attribute the performance improvement to the machine-learning method driven by a large-scale training set and the clustering algorithm regulated by a name compatibility scheme preferring precision. With integration of the author name disambiguation system into the PubMed search engine, the overall click-through-rate of PubMed users on author name query results improved from 34.9% to 36.9%."},"articletitle":{"0":"Pandemics are catalysts of scientific novelty: Evidence from COVID-19.","1":"Understanding the effects of message cues on COVID-19 information sharing on Twitter.","2":"Understanding the spread of COVID-19 misinformation on social media: The effects of topics and a political leader's nudge.","3":"Knowledge creation through collaboration: The role of shared institutional affiliations and physical proximity.","4":"The impact of emotional signals on credibility assessment.","5":"Ethnicity-based name partitioning for author name disambiguation using supervised machine learning.","6":"Forensically reconstructing biomedical maintenance labor: PDF metadata under the epistemic conditions of COVID-19.","7":"Loosen control without losing control: Formalization and decentralization within commons-based peer production.","8":"Medieval Spanish (12th-15th centuries) named entity recognition and attribute annotation system based on contextual information.","9":"Multilingual publishing in the social sciences and humanities: A seven-country European study.","10":"The personal information sphere: An integral approach to privacy and related information and communication rights.","11":"Global health crises are also information crises: A call to action.","12":"The relationships between health information behavior and neural processing in african americans with prehypertension.","13":"Integrating neurophysiologic relevance feedback in intent modeling for information retrieval.","14":"Motivations, understandings, and experiences of open-access mega-journal authors: Results of a large-scale survey.","15":"Identifying author heritage using surname data: An application for Russian surnames.","16":"Searching Data: A Review of Observational Data Retrieval Practices in Selected Disciplines.","17":"The social informatics of knowledge.","18":"Places in Information Science.","19":"Health outcomes of online consumer health information: A systematic mixed studies review with framework synthesis.","20":"Comparing neural- and N-gram-based language models for word segmentation.","21":"The Relative Influences of Government Funding and International Collaboration on Citation Impact.","22":"\"Take an opportunity whenever you get it\": Information Sharing among African-American Women with Hypertension.","23":"Measuring Text Difficulty Using Parse-Tree Frequency.","24":"Social network analysis on a topic-based navigation guidance system in a public health portal.","25":"Why Does Attention to Web Articles Fall With Time?","26":"Patient Portal Preferences: Perspectives on Imaging Information.","27":"Information Behavior and HIV Testing Intentions Among Young Men at Risk for HIV\/AIDS.","28":"Author Name Disambiguation for PubMed."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"","23":"","24":"","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","1":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","2":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","3":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","4":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","5":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","6":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","7":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","8":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","9":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","10":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","11":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","12":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","13":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","14":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","15":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","16":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","17":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","18":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","19":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","20":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","21":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","22":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","23":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","24":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","25":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","26":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","27":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology","28":"Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology"},"keyword":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":"","5":"","6":"","7":"","8":"","9":"","10":"","11":"","12":"African-Americansbehavioral sciencesinformation use","13":"","14":"","15":"","16":"","17":"","18":"","19":"","20":"","21":"","22":"African-American womeninformation transferresource sharing","23":"ComprehensionHealth LiteracyPatient EducationReadabilityText DifficultyText Simplification","24":"navigation (information retrieval)portals","25":"","26":"","27":"","28":""},"language":{"0":"eng","1":"eng","2":"eng","3":"eng","4":"eng","5":"eng","6":"eng","7":"eng","8":"eng","9":"eng","10":"eng","11":"eng","12":"eng","13":"eng","14":"eng","15":"eng","16":"eng","17":"eng","18":"eng","19":"eng","20":"eng","21":"eng","22":"eng","23":"eng","24":"eng","25":"eng","26":"eng","27":"eng","28":"eng"},"pmid":{"0":35441082,"1":34901313,"2":34901312,"3":34692897,"4":34589557,"5":34414251,"6":34230887,"7":33768135,"8":33665231,"9":33288998,"10":32984437,"11":32427189,"12":31799335,"13":31763361,"14":31763360,"15":31763359,"16":31763358,"17":31763357,"18":31737747,"19":31423458,"20":30775406,"21":32728598,"22":29546230,"23":29057293,"24":32313818,"25":26478903,"26":26191535,"27":25346934,"28":28758138},"pubdate_year":{"0":2021,"1":2021,"2":2021,"3":2021,"4":2021,"5":2021,"6":2021,"7":2021,"8":2021,"9":2020,"10":2020,"11":2020,"12":2019,"13":2019,"14":2019,"15":2019,"16":2019,"17":2019,"18":2019,"19":2019,"20":2019,"21":2019,"22":2018,"23":2017,"24":2016,"25":2015,"26":2015,"27":2014,"28":2014}}