{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2},"abstracttext":{"0":"The COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2 virus) pandemic has led to a substantial loss of human life worldwide by providing an unparalleled challenge to the public health system. The economic, psychological, and social disarray generated by the COVID-19 pandemic is devastating. Public health experts and epidemiologists worldwide are struggling to formulate policies on how to control this pandemic as there is no effective vaccine or treatment available which provide long-term immunity against different variants of COVID-19 and to eradicate this virus completely. As the new cases and fatalities are recorded daily or weekly, the responses are likely to be repeated or longitudinally correlated. Thus, studying the impact of available covariates and new cases on deaths from COVID-19 repeatedly would provide significant insights into this pandemic's dynamics. For a better understanding of the dynamics of spread, in this paper, we study the impact of various risk factors on the new cases and deaths over time. To do that, we propose a marginal-conditional based joint modelling approach to predict trajectories, which is crucial to the health policy planners for taking necessary measures. The conditional model is a natural choice to study the underlying property of dependence in consecutive new cases and deaths. Using this model, one can examine the relationship between outcomes and predictors, and it is possible to calculate risks of the sequence of events repeatedly. The advantage of repeated measures is that one can see how individual responses change over time. The predictive accuracy of the proposed model is also compared with various machine learning techniques. The machine learning algorithms used in this paper are extended to accommodate repeated responses. The performance of the proposed model is illustrated using COVID-19 data collected from the Texas Health and Human Services.","1":"In this paper, we consider an SI epidemic reaction-diffusion model with logistic source and saturation infection mechanism. We first establish the uniform boundedness and the extinction and persistence of the infectious disease in terms of the basic reproductive number. We also discuss the global stability of the unique endemic equilibrium when the spatial environment is homogeneous. Then we investigate the asymptotic behavior of the endemic equilibria in the heterogeneous environment when the movement rate of the susceptible and infected populations is small. Our results, together with the other two related epidemic models , not only show that the logistic growth, the infection mechanism, and the population movement can play an important role in the transmission dynamics of disease, but also suggest that increasing the inhibitory effect of the susceptible individuals instead of reducing the mobility of the populations can control the epidemic disease modeled by the SI system under consideration.","2":null},"articletitle":{"0":"Regressive Class Modelling for Predicting Trajectories of COVID-19 Fatalities Using Statistical and Machine Learning Models.","1":"Analysis on a Diffusive SI Epidemic Model with Logistic Source and Saturation Infection Mechanism.","2":null},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Bulletin of the Malaysian Mathematical Sciences Society","1":"Bulletin of the Malaysian Mathematical Sciences Society","2":"Bulletin of the Malaysian Mathematical Sciences Society"},"keyword":{"0":"Deep learning techniquesJoint modellingModel accuracyRepeated measuresSARS-CoV-2 virus","1":"Asymptotic behaviorEndemic equilibriumInhibitory effectLogistic sourceSI epidemic modelSaturation infectionSmall diffusion","2":null},"pmid":{"0":35431363,"1":35228763,"2":34803194},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2022,"2":2021}}