{"articleID":{"0":0,"1":1,"2":2,"3":3,"4":4},"abstracttext":{"0":null,"1":"We consider removing lower order statistics from the classical Hill estimator in extreme value statistics, and compensating for it by rescaling the remaining terms. Trajectories of these trimmed statistics as a function of the extent of trimming turn out to be quite flat near the optimal threshold value. For the regularly varying case, the classical threshold selection problem in tail estimation is then revisited, both visually via trimmed Hill plots and, for the Hall class, also mathematically via minimizing the expected empirical variance. This leads to a simple threshold selection procedure for the classical Hill estimator which circumvents the estimation of some of the tail characteristics, a problem which is usually the bottleneck in threshold selection. As a by-product, we derive an alternative estimator of the tail index, which assigns more weight to large observations, and works particularly well for relatively lighter tails. A simple ratio statistic routine is suggested to evaluate the goodness of the implied selection of the threshold. We illustrate the favourable performance and the potential of the proposed method with simulation studies and real insurance data.","2":null,"3":"A new approach to extreme value theory is presented for vector data with heavy tails. The tail index is allowed to vary with direction, where the directions are not necessarily along the coordinate axes. Basic asymptotic theory is developed, using operator regular variation and extremal integrals. A test is proposed to judge whether the tail index varies with direction in any given data set.","4":"Estimating the probability of extreme temperature events is difficult because of limited records across time and the need to extrapolate the distributions of these events, as opposed to just the mean, to locations where observations are not available. Another related issue is the need to characterize the uncertainty in the estimated probability of extreme events at different locations. Although the tools for statistical modeling of univariate extremes are well-developed, extending these tools to model spatial extreme data is an active area of research. In this paper, in order to make inference about spatial extreme events, we introduce a new nonparametric model for extremes. We present a Dirichlet-based copula model that is a flexible alternative to parametric copula models such as the normal and t-copula. The proposed modelling approach is fitted using a Bayesian framework that allow us to take into account different sources of uncertainty in the data and models. We apply our methods to annual maximum temperature values in the east-south-central United States."},"articletitle":{"0":"Pandemic-type failures in multivariate Brownian risk models.","1":"Threshold selection and trimming in extremes.","2":"Distribution of the Height of Local Maxima of Gaussian Random Fields.","3":"EXTREME VALUE THEORY WITH OPERATOR NORMING.","4":"Nonparametric Spatial Models for Extremes: Application to Extreme Temperature Data."},"doi":{"0":"","1":"","2":"","3":"","4":""},"journal_title":{"0":"Extremes","1":"Extremes","2":"Extremes","3":"Extremes","4":"Extremes"},"keyword":{"0":"Exact asymptoticsFailure timeMultivariate Brownian risk modelPandemic-type eventsProbability of multiple simultaneous failuresSimultaneous ruin probability","1":"Hall classRegular variationThreshold selectionTrimming","2":"Euler characteristicGaussian orthogonal ensembleHeightRiemannian manifoldisotropic fieldlocal maximaovershootsphere","3":"directional extremesheavy tailshetero-ouracityoperator regular variationparametric bootstrapspectral representation","4":"Dirichlet processesextreme temperaturesnonstationarityreturn levelsspatial models"},"pmid":{"0":35221783,"1":33132744,"2":26478714,"3":24443640,"4":24058280},"pubdate_year":{"0":2022,"1":2020,"2":2015,"3":2013,"4":2013}}